Modified Immune Cells (Autologous Dendritic Cells) and a Vaccine (Prevnar) After High-Dose External Beam Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Unresectable Liver Cancer
This Phase I-II trial studies the safety and efficacy of autologous dendritic cells and a vaccine called Prevnar in treating patients with liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery after undergoing standard high-dose external beam radiotherapy. Autologous dendritic cells are immune cells generated from the patients' own white blood cells that are grown in a special lab and trained to stimulate the immune system to destroy tumor cells. A pneumonia vaccine called Prevnar may also help stimulate the immune system. Giving autologous dendritic cells and Prevnar to patients with liver cancer after radiotherapy may help doctors determine if it is possible to stimulate the body's own immune system to fight against the tumor, and to see if this immune stimulation can be done safely (Phase I) and can be combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors (Phase II). The Phase I cohort will only include patients with unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, while the Phase II cohort will only include patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma..
Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Unresectable Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Pheresis|BIOLOGICAL: Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Therapeutic Autologous Dendritic Cells
Incidence of significant toxicity (Pilot study), A significant toxicity is defined as a dose limiting toxicity that is possibly, probably, or definitely related to dendritic cell (DC) treatment. Toxicities will be assessed using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program active version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Up to completion of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Progression-free survival rate at 2 years (Phase II), At 2 years
Overall response rate, The overall response rate will be estimated by the number of patients with an objective status of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 1 year post treatment|Number of patients who received at least one dose of intratumoral DC injection, The feasibility of the regimen will be estimated by the number of patients who received at least one dose of intratumoral DC injection divided by the total number of patients who received apheresis., Up to 1 year post treatment|Clinical benefit rate, The clinical benefit rate will be estimated by the number of patients with an objective status of stable disease or CR or PR at any time divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true clinical benefit rate will be calculate, Up to 1 year post treatment|Time to response, Time to response is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved an objective response as the date of initiation of vaccination treatment to the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR. Time to response will be summarized descriptively using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Up to 1 year post treatment|Duration of response, Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved an objective response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented. Duration of response will be summarized descriptively using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Up to 1 year post treatment|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the survival over time., From registration to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years after registration|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the progression-free survival over time., From registration to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years after registration
Change in target lesion measurements, All enhancing lesions will be evaluated over time for each patient. The percent change from baseline in target lesion measurements will be assessed over time. Differences in values over time will be summarized descriptively and graphically., Baseline up to 1 year post treatment|Change in immunologic correlates before and after vaccination treatment, Change in immunologic correlates before and after vaccination treatment will be evaluated and summarized both quantitatively and graphically. Each of the correlative endpoints will be summarized individually, but will also be evaluated in terms of their relationships to one another; i.e., will use Spearman rank correlation coefficient to assess the correlations between baseline levels as well as between changes before and after treatment in these immunologic markers. In addition, these immunologic markers will be correlated with cancer and treatment related outcomes (e.g. response, adverse events). Relationships will also be explored graphically using scatter plots., Baseline up to 1 year post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluation of safety and tolerability of an autologous dendritic cell (DC) vaccine delivered by intra-tumoral injection in patients with unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma treated with high-dose conformal external beam radiotherapy (EBRT). (Phase I)

II. Assess the safety and clinical efficacy of an autologous dendritic cell (DC) vaccine delivered by intra-tumoral injection, in combination with intravenous atezolizumab and bevacizumab, in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma treated with high-dose conformal external beam radiotherapy (EBRT). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess feasibility in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

II. To assess overall response rate in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

III. To assess progression free survival in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

IV. To assess clinical benefit rate in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

V. To assess time to response in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

VI. To assess duration of response in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

VII. To assess overall survival in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

RADIOLOGIC STUDY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the radiologic response over time of primary liver tumors treated with high-dose conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To monitor patients' immune response after vaccine therapy. II. To assess the immune response to pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine (Prevnar).

OUTLINE:

PILOT STUDY (GROUP I): Patients with unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) undergo apheresis for dendric cell manufacturing and standard of care high-dose EBRT for 5 or 15 fractions over 1-3 weeks (cycle 1). Patients then receive autologous dendritic cells intratumorally (IT) on day 1 of cycles 2-8 and pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on day 1 of cycles 2-4 only. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 7 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II STUDY (GROUP II): Patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) undergo apheresis for dendric cell manufacturing and standard of care high-dose EBRT for 5 or 15 fractions over 1-3 weeks (cycle 1). Patients then receive autologous dendritic cells IT on day 1 of cycles 2-8 and pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine IM on day 1 of cycles 2-4 only. Patients also receive standard of care atezolizumab intravenously (IV) and bevacizumab IV starting on day 2 of cycles 2-8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 7 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks and then every 3 months for 1 year (beginning at week 36 or 12 weeks after last autologous dendritic cell dose whichever is earlier). Patients are then followed every 3 months until disease progression, and then every 6 months until 5 years after registration.