Project OASIS: Optimizing Approaches to Select Implementation Strategies
Barriers that prevent healthcare methods supported by science from being adopted in the real world have led to low-quality, inequitable medical care. Implementation science aims to bridge the evidence-to-practice gap but still lacks simple and convenient methods to identify implementation barriers, systematically track which strategies work to improve care, and provide accessible data and expert recommendations to guide implementation strategy selection for use in research and practice. Project OASIS (Optimizing Approaches to Select Implementation Strategies) will conduct a hybrid type-III, cluster-randomized trial of a new decision aid tool that matches site variables and barriers to successful implementation strategies.
Cirrhosis|Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: OASIS DA training|BEHAVIORAL: Current DA Tool training
Reach as assessed by hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) screening rates, Reach of an intervention refers to the absolute number, proportion, and representativeness of individuals who are willing to participate in a given intervention. The reach outcome will be the percentage of active VA patients with a diagnosis of cirrhosis receiving guideline-concordant abdominal imaging every 6 months., measured quarterly 1 year pre-intervention through 6 months post-intervention|Effectiveness as assessed by patient outcomes, Effectiveness is the impact of an intervention on important individual outcomes. Patient outcomes such as cancers detected and linkage to curative treatment will be used to assess effectiveness., measured quarterly 1 year pre-intervention through 6 months post-intervention|Adoption as assessed by % improvement in HCC screening performance, Adoption is the absolute number, proportion, and representativeness of settings/people who are willing to initiate a program. The investigators will assess adoption by the percent improvement in screening performance at intervention sites from pre- to post-intervention., measured quarterly 1 year pre-intervention through 6 months post-intervention|Implementation as assessed by fidelity to HCC screening recommendations, Implementation is the extent to which an intervention is delivered as intended. The investigators will assess implementation by the proportion of patients at an intervention site receiving all hepatocellular carcinoma screening as recommended (correct timing and modality)., measured quarterly 1 year pre-intervention through 6 months post-intervention|Maintenance as assessed by maintenance of other measures, Maintenance is the extent to which a program becomes part of routine organizational practices. The investigators will assess maintenance by sustainment of all above outcomes at 6 months post-intervention., 6 months post-intervention
Acceptability of Intervention Measure (AIM), Acceptability refers to a given innovation being perceived as agreeable, palatable, or satisfactory by implementation stakeholders. The AIM is a 4-item measure scored on a 5-point Likert scale., up to 4 weeks, 6 months post-intervention|Intervention Appropriateness Measure (IAM), Appropriateness is the perceived fit of an innovation to address a particular issue or problem. The IAM is a 4-item measure on a 5-point Likert scale., up to 4 weeks, 6 months post-intervention|Feasibility of Intervention Measure (FIM), Feasibility refers to the extent to which an innovation can be successfully used within a given setting. The FIM is a 4-item measure on a 5-point Likert scale., up to 4 weeks, 6 months post-intervention
Implementation science aims to improve the uptake of evidence-based health care practices (EBPs) by defining barriers that prevent their use, offering strategies to overcome these barriers, and developing methods that help clinicians and researchers choose strategies that best address the barriers they encounter. With strategy selection often being inefficient and idiosyncratic, experts have called for methods to make strategy selection scientific, data-driven, and "precise." This "precision implementation" causes a critical need to identify implementation barriers and facilitators quickly and uniformly, track implementation strategy use and effectiveness, and incorporate data and expert knowledge into the process of matching strategies to barriers. Without these improvements, there is a risk of perpetuating implementation failures and health care disparities.

Project OASIS (Optimizing Approaches to Select Implementation Strategies) will conduct a cluster-randomized, hybrid type III trial to compare a machine learning derived decision aid (DA) for selecting implementation strategies with a current expert opinion-based tool in 20 VA medical centers. The investigators will apply the Reach, Effectiveness, Adoption, Implementation, Maintenance (RE-AIM) evaluative framework and assess rates of hepatocellular carcinoma screening (an EBP) for Veterans with cirrhosis at these sites. As this is a facility-level intervention, Veterans with cirrhosis will be cluster randomized to the DA vs. Current Tool arms. The investigators anticipate that Veterans at sites in the DA arm will be significantly more likely to receive screening than Veterans at sites in the Current Tool arm.