Microdevice for Evaluating Drug Response in Site in Lung Lesions
This is a pilot study for placement of a tiny microdevice into lung tumors to more precisely predict tumor-specific drug sensitivity, and to help inform systemic therapeutic decisions. The microdevice will provide a novel technique for interrogating human lung tumor tissue in situ, and will uniquely facilitate assessment of response to multiple drugs simultaneously. This will not only increase the specificity of a particular participant's chosen systemic therapy, it will also augment the speed and efficiency with which investigators are able to make clinical decisions regarding choice of therapy.
Lung Tumor|Lung Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Microdevice loaded with 19 chemotherapeutic agents
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (safety and feasibility) related to the placement and removal of the microdevice., Safety will be measured quantitatively by the number of participants with treatment-related adverse events., 5 years|Number of histopathology analyses and interpretations for drugs eluted from microdevice reservoirs into resected lung lesion tissue., Feasibility will be based on the ability to retrieve the device with sufficient tissue, of sufficient quality, for downstream histopathology analysis and interpretation of the device reservoirs., 5 years
Stratification of local tumoral cellular responses to various agents and combinations of agents released from the microdevice reservoirs., This initial proof-of-concept pilot study will gauge the ability of using the microdevice to predict tumor drug response, allowing a stratified systemic treatment to prioritize those agents inducing the greatest anti-tumor response., 5 years
The initial aims in this pilot study will focus on the safety and feasibility of microdevice placement and retrieval in participants with suspicious lung lesions. The microdevice, which is 5.5 mm in length and approximately 750 µm in diameter (i.e., comparable in size and shape to commonly used fiducial markers), will be placed in the suspected tumor tissue at the time of surgical resection. Multiple agents will passively diffuse into local, confined regions (several microns) of the surrounding microenvironment. The agents are released at approximately one millionth of a systemic dose. The device(s) will be removed for analysis at the time of resection, which will be performed for clinical indications independent of enrollment in this study. The investigators will collect data regarding the safety and feasibility of the placement and retrieval of the microdevices, and perform detailed tissue analysis of drug response. Investigators hope to compile preliminary data regarding correlations between in situ drug response and the genetic and histopathologic features of tumors, systemic treatment response, and ultimately, clinical outcomes.