An Investigational Scan (7 Tesla MRI) in Diagnosing Cognitive Impairment in Patients With Non-Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This trial studies 7 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in diagnosing cognitive impairment in patients with prostate cancer that has not spread to other places in the body (non-metastatic) and who have or have not received androgen deprivation therapy (ADT). The MRI machine uses a strong magnet and radio wave to make images of the inside of the body. A stronger magnetic field allows greater signals and more detailed visualization of the structure and function of human body. Giving 7 Tesla MRI may help doctors learn if patients that receive ADT show more signs of cognitive dysfunction or brain fog compared to patients to patients that do not receive ADT.
Non-Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: 7 Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Brain structural connectivity, Will be measured using T1-weighted and diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)., Up to 1 year|Brain functional connectivity, Will be measured using resting-state functional MRI., Up to 1 year|Brain metabolic profiles, Will be evaluated by MR spectroscopy., Up to 1 year
Assessment of testosterone and prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels, For the correlation of between testosterone and PSA levels with MRI measures and cognitive measures, the study will use scatter plots to explore the pattern of correlation. Spearmen's correlation will be used to test the correlation. Both groups will be combined for the correlation analysis., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Observe longitudinal changes in structural connectivity using T1-weighted and diffusion tensor MRI in men with non-metastatic prostate cancer on current ADT versus those who were not.

II. Observe longitudinal changes in brain functional connectivity using resting-state functional (rsf) MRI.

III. Observe longitudinal changes in brain metabolic profiles evaluated by MR spectroscopy (MRS).

IV. Exploratory assessment of correlation between testosterone and prostate specific antigen (PSA) levels with MRI measures and cognitive measures.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility and acceptability of this approach using sequential 7T MRI in prostate cancer patients either receiving ADT or not.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 7 Tesla MRI over 30-90 minutes at baseline and at 6-9 months.