RPFNA Assessment of Exercise Effect in Breast Cancer
This study is being done to see if the investigators can measure changes that occur in breast tissue when women at risk of developing breast cancer start an exercise program. The investigators are interested in studying this because research shows that women who exercise regularly are less likely to develop breast cancer, but there is not very much information explaining how exercise could affect breast cells in a way to prevent cancer from occurring. In this research study the investigators will use a research technique called breast random fine needle aspiration (RPFNA) to test breast cells for their shape and how they look. The investigators will look at breast cells before and after a participant takes part in an exercise program to see if the investigators are able to see any changes in breast cells that could have happened due to the exercise program. This research will help us to develop larger projects to see if exercise programs could be helpful in preventing breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention
Feasibility of enrolling patients in a study looking at the impact of exercise upon breast tissue markers, This is a small pilot feasability study designed to see if we can recruit patients into this kind of trial and if we can measure biomarker expression in breast tissue collected through RPFNA.

Data analyses will be primarily descriptive in this pilot study. The primary feasibility endpoint will be assessed by the number of women with pre- and post-exercise RPFNA samples with sufficient cells (\> 500) for analysis. We require evidence that at least 60% of participants could provide adequate samples order to declare success in this pilot study. Therefore, if 10 of 12 enrolled women have RPFNA samples at both times with sufficient cells, the lower bound of the one-sided, 90% exact confidence interval will exceed 60% and the study will be considered feasible., 2 years
Secondary objectives will explore changes in proliferative and morphologic indices of the breast as expressed by changes in Ki-67 and the Masood index., Baseline values of percent Ki-67 and Masood index will be summarized using descriptive statistics. The proportions of women with 6-week changes in Masood index of 0 points, 1-2 points, and 3 or more points will be summarized, as will changes in Ki-67 percent. Comparable analyses will be conducted to estimate the changes in concentrations of serum metabolic and inflammatory biomarkers: insulin, glucose, IGF-1, IGFBPs, IL-2, IL-6, CRP, and TNFα. We will also summarize changes in expression of metabolic, sex steroid and related receptors in epithelial breast tissue., 2 years
This study is being done to see if the investigators can measure changes that occur in breast tissue when women at risk of developing breast cancer start an exercise program. The investigators are interested in studying this because research shows that women who exercise regularly are less likely to develop breast cancer, but there is not very much information explaining how exercise could affect breast cells in a way to prevent cancer from occurring. In this research study the investigators will use a research technique called breast random fine needle aspiration (RPFNA) to test breast cells for their shape and how they look. The investigators will look at breast cells before and after a participant takes part in an exercise program to see if the investigators are able to see any changes in breast cells that could have happened due to the exercise program. This research will help us to develop larger projects to see if exercise programs could be helpful in preventing breast cancer.