Lisinopril in Reducing Shortness of Breath Caused by Radiation Therapy in Patients With Lung Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies lisinopril in reducing shortness of breath caused by radiation therapy in patients with lung cancer. Lisinopril may decrease the side effects caused by radiation therapy in patients with lung cancer.
Dyspnea|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: lisinopril|DRUG: placebo
Incidence of Grade 3 or Higher Hypotension, Acute Kidney Injury, Allergic Reaction, or Anaphylaxis, as Measured Using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.0, Incidence of grade 3 or higher hypotension, acute kidney injury, allergic reaction, or anaphylaxis, as measured using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0. Descriptive statistics of frequency (percentage) will be used to summarize adverse event (AE) incidence and severity in the lisinopril and placebo arms separately., Up to 3 months post-radiation therapy
Acute Respiratory Distress (Dyspnea), Measured Using of the Maximum Score, at Any Time, of the Shortness of Breath Question (Item #4) on the LCSS (Worst Dyspnea Score), Acute respiratory distress (dyspnea), measured using of the maximum score, at any time, of the shortness of breath question (Item #4 "How much shortness of breath do you have?") on the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS) (Worst Dyspnea Score). The LCSS tool contains 6 major symptoms associated with lung malignancies and their effect on overall symptomatic distress, functional activities, and global quality of life (QOL). The item scale ranges from 0-10 (0 = None; 10 = As much as it could be) where the LCSS scoring algorithm is applied to convert to a 0-100 point scale where 100 is best quality of life (QOL), for comparability. Patient scores range from 0 to 100, where 100 was best QOL (i.e. less pulmonary distress)., Up to 3 months post-radiation therapy|Experience Shortness of Breath During Exercise as Measured Using Item #3 on the Symptom Experience Questionnaire (SEQ) at Week 4, Experience shortness of breath during exercise as measured using Item #3 ("Over the past week, did you experience shortness of breath when you exercise or exert yourself?") on the Symptom Experience Questionnaire (SEQ) at Baseline. The item scale ranges from 0-10 (0 = Not at all; 10 = As bad as it can be) where the SEQ scoring algorithm is applied to convert to a 0-100 point scale where 100 is best quality of life (QOL), for comparability., At Week 4|Quality of Life (Dyspnea When Climbing Stairs) Assessed Using Item #5 of the European Organization for Research on the Treatment of Cancer Lung Cancer Module Survey (EORTC-QLQ-LC13) at Week 4, Dyspnea when climbing as measured using item #5 ("Were you short of breath when you climbed stairs?") of the EORTC-QLQ-LC13 at Week 4. The item scale ranges from 1-4 (1 = Not at all; 4 = Very Much) where the EORTC-QLQ-LC13 scoring algorithm is applied to convert to a 0-100 point scale where 100 is best quality of life (QOL), for comparability., At Week 4|Total LCSS Score as Measure by the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS) at Week 4, Total LCSS score as measured using the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS) at Week 4. The item scale ranges from 0-10 (0 = None; 10 = As much as it could be) where the LCSS scoring algorithm is applied to convert to a 0-100 point scale where 100 is best quality of life (QOL), for comparability., At Week 4
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the adverse event profile of lisinopril, during and after external beam radiation therapy (RT) to the lung.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the level of patient-reported acute respiratory distress (dyspnea) during and after external beam RT.

II. To explore the level of patient-reported symptoms during and after external beam RT.

III. To explore the impact of lisinopril treatment on patient quality of life (QOL) during and after external beam RT.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Beginning within 7 days of beginning radiation therapy, patients receive lisinopril orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-7.

ARM II: Beginning within 7 days of beginning radiation therapy, patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-7.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 7 days for until 3 months after completion of radiation therapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.