CCI-779 in Treating Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of CCI-779 in treating patients who have recurrent glioblastoma multiforme. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
DRUG: temsirolimus|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Percentage of patients being progression free, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., 6 months
Percentage of patients that have not progressed, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., 3 months|Percentage of patients that have not progressed, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., 12 months|Percentage of patients that have not progressed, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., 18 months|Confirmed tumor response defined as an objective status of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or regression (REGR) on two consecutive evaluations, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true proportion will be calculated using the exact binomial method., Up to 10 years|Time to progression and death, Estimated using Kaplan-Meier. Frequency distributions of baseline patient characteristics will be compared using chi-squared and Wilcoxon tests., Up to 10 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of CCI-779, in terms of the percentage of patients who are progression-free at 6 months, time to progression, and time to death, in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme.

II. Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients. III. Correlate molecular alterations in the tumors of these patients with response to treatment with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to concurrent P450 anticonvulsant use (yes vs no).

Patients receive CCI-779 IV over 30 minutes once weekly for 4 weeks. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years and then annually for up to 10 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 63 patients will be accrued for this study within 39 months.