Testing a New Anti-cancer Drug Combination, Entinostat and GSK525762C, for Advanced and Refractory Solid Tumors and Lymphomas
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of GSK525762C (molibresib besylate) and entinostat in treating patients with solid tumors or lymphomas that have spread to other parts of the body (advanced) or are not responding to treatment (refractory). GSK525762C and entinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. This study may help doctors find out if giving the combination of GSK525762C and entinostat is better or worse than the usual approach for treating solid tumors or lymphomas.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Ann Arbor Stage III B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Pancreatic Carcinoma|Refractory T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Pancreatic Carcinoma
DRUG: Entinostat|DRUG: Molibresib
Maximum tolerated dose, Assesses with dose limiting toxicities. Descriptive statistics, including means, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous parameters, as well as percentages and frequencies for categorical parameters, will be presented., At 28 days
Incidence of adverse events, Graded per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. National Cancer Institute toxicity grade 3 and grade 4 laboratory abnormalities will be listed., Up to 2 years|Overall response rate (ORR), The exact two-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the RR will be reported., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method with the 95% CIs. The CI based on Greenwood's variance will be reported. In addition, the possible risk factors will be compared for survival with log-rank test., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method with the 95% CIs. The CI based on Greenwood's variance will be reported. In addition, the possible risk factors will be compared for survival with log-rank test., Up to 2 years|Duration of response, The 95% CIs for the duration of response will be reported., Up to 2 years
Effect of GSK525762C and entinostat combination therapy on apoptosis rate, Measured by an apoptosis multiplex immunoassay. Statistical and bioinformatic data analysis for laboratory non-omics data and clinical data will utilize the following general strategies, as appropriate. For single time-point lab data, tests of hypotheses concerning within-group comparisons will be completed using the paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test for continuous parameters of interest, or McNemar's Chi-square test for categorical parameters of interest. Between-group comparisons will be assessed using either analysis of variance (ANOVA) with adjusted least squares means or Fisher's exact test, for continuous or categorical variables of interest, respectively. For count or binary multiple time-points or correlated data, tests of between-group comparisons will be completed using the generalized estimating equation (GEE) statistical procedure for longitudinal data analysis with multiple observable vectors for the same subject., Up to 2 years|Effect of GSK525762C and entinostat combination therapy on c-MYC expression, Measured by ribonucleic acid (RNA) and protein expression. Statistical and bioinformatic data analysis for laboratory non-omics data and clinical data will utilize the following general strategies, as appropriate. For single time-point lab data, tests of hypotheses concerning within-group comparisons will be completed using the paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test for continuous parameters of interest, or McNemar's Chi-square test for categorical parameters of interest. Between-group comparisons will be assessed using either ANOVA with adjusted least squares means or Fisher's exact test, for continuous or categorical variables of interest, respectively. For count or binary multiple time-points or correlated data, tests of between-group comparisons will be completed using the GEE statistical procedure for longitudinal data analysis with multiple observable vectors for the same subject., Up to 2 years|Effect of GSK525762C and entinostat combination therapy on YAP1 expression, Measured by RNA and protein expression. Statistical and bioinformatic data analysis for laboratory non-omics data and clinical data will utilize the following general strategies, as appropriate. For single time-point lab data, tests of hypotheses concerning within-group comparisons will be completed using the paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test for continuous parameters of interest, or McNemar's Chi-square test for categorical parameters of interest. Between-group comparisons will be assessed using either ANOVA with adjusted least squares means or Fisher's exact test, for continuous or categorical variables of interest, respectively. For count or binary multiple time-points or correlated data, tests of between-group comparisons will be completed using the GEE statistical procedure for longitudinal data analysis with multiple observable vectors for the same subject., Up to 2 years|Effect of GSK525762C and entinostat combination therapy on tumor burden, As measured by whole exome sequencing and RNA sequencing (RNASeq) on circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) specimens., Up to 2 years|Effect of GSK525762C and entinostat combination therapy on gene expression patterns, As measured by whole exome sequencing and RNASeq on circulating tumor DNA specimens., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of GSK525762C and entinostat in combination in patients with advanced and refractory solid tumors and lymphomas based on dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of the combination of GSK525762C and entinostat.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the safety profile of GSK525762C and entinostat in advanced and refractory solid tumors and lymphomas.

II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of GSK525762C and entinostat in advanced and refractory solid tumors and lymphomas.

III. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DOR), and overall survival (OS) of GSK525762C and entinostat in this patient population.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of GSK525762C and entinostat therapy on apoptosis, as measured by an apoptosis multiplex immunoassay.

II. To assess the effect of GSK525762C and entinostat therapy on c-MYC and YAP1 as measured by ribonucleic acid (RNA) and protein expression.

III. To assess the effect of GSK525762C and entinostat therapy on tumor burden and gene expression patterns as measured by whole exome sequencing (WES) and RNA sequencing (RNASeq) on circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) specimens.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive entinostat orally (PO) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, and molibresib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.