GAMBIT Trial: Cisplatin Plus Irinotecan in the Treatment of Gallbladder or Biliary Tract Cancer
To evaluate safety and efficacy of the combination cisplatin plus irinotecan in the treatment of biliary tract cancer.
Biliary Cancer
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Overall Response Rate, The overall response rate will measure the number of subjects with complete or partial response as best response during the entire treatment, over the total number of subjects, for each arm. The response will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1., Up to 24 weeks from randomization
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), We will measure the number of subjects without progressive disease (complete response, partial response or stable disease) or any-cause death, whichever came first. For each patient, PFS will be calculated from randomization until progressive disease. Disease progression means radiologic progression per RECIST 1.1 or any-cause death. PFS will also be analysed with log-rank test, and reported as HR with respective 95% CI and p value, and median PFS will be estimated with kaplan-meyer method. All calculations will be performed 6 months after the last patient recruited. Also, the PFS rate at one and two years will be calculated., 6mo after the last enrolled patient|Overall Survival (OS), We will measure the number of subjects without any-cause death. For each patient, OS will be calculated from randomization until death. OS will also be analysed with log-rank test, and reported as HR with respective 95% CI and p value, and median OS will be estimated with kaplan-meyer method. All calculations will be performed 6 months after the last patient recruited. Also, the survival rate at one and two years will be calculated., 6mo after the last enrolled patient|Disease Control Rate, The disease control rate will measure the number of subjects with complete or partial response, or disease stabilization as best response during the entire treatment, over the total number of subjects, for each arm. The response will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1., Up to 6 weeks from randomization|Safety, Safety and tolerability will be assessed using NCI CTCAE v3. The number of patients in each arm experiencing any grade Adverse Events (for each AE) and Serious AE (SAE) over the total number of subjects will be measured, and the proportion of patients experiencing AE in each arm will be compared using uncorrected chi-sq test. AE will be recorded in baseline and in each visit, and the worst grade AE will be considered. Each AE will be classified in grades 1-2, 3-4 and SAE., 6 mo after the last enrolled patients
Biomarker evaluation, The following biomarkers will be tested by immunohistochemistry: human equilibrative nucleoside transporter (hENT), X-ray repair cross-complementing protein 1 (XRCC1), Excision repair cross-complementing rodent repair deficiency, complementation group 1 (ERCC1) e mLH1. Then we will correlate them with efficacy end-points using non-parametric test., Baseline
To evaluate safety and efficacy of the combination cisplatin plus irinotecan in the treatment of biliary tract cancer.