Non-Invasive Cardiometry and Ultrasound Guided Inferior Vena Cava Collapsibility Index in Assessing Fluid Responsiveness
43 patients between 18-60 years presenting with criteria of sepsis (life-threatening organ dysfunction caused by a dysregulated host response to infection, suspected or documented infection and an acute increase ≥2 SOFA \[Sequential Organ Failure Assessment\] points) will be enrolled in our study. Approval of the ethical committee and informed written consent from first degree relatives will be issued. They will be given a full and detailed explanation of the intended study protocol and will be informed about the potential benefits of the development of a successful technique as well as the potential side-effects.

To compare the efficacy of non-invasive cardiometry and ultrasound (US) guided inferior vena cava (IVC) collapsibility when assessing the response of septic patients to fluid therapy guidelines of The Third International Consensus Definitions for Sepsis and Septic Shock (Sepsis-3); in the first six hours of ICU admission .
Volume Overload|Tissue Perfusion
DEVICE: OSYPKA Medical ICONTM Noninvasive CardiometerTM Model C3|DEVICE: Fujifilm Sonosite M-Turbo C Ultrasound system
Inferior vena cava collapsibility index, The ultrasound guided IVC collapsibility index will be correlated with to the cardiac index determined by the non-invasive cardiometry to determine which is more effective., 6 hours
Heart rate, beats per minute, 6 hours|Central Venous Pressure, mmHg, 6 hours|Mean Arterial Pressure, 100 mmHg, 6 hours|Urine Output, ml/kg/hour, 6 hours|Lactate clearance, mmol/L, 6 hours|Pro-calcitonin, ng/ml, 6 hours|Inferior Vena Cava Collapsibility Index, percentage, 6 hours|Non-invasive cardiometry measurements (cardiac index), l/min/m2, 6 hours
One of the newer non-invasive methods used to assess fluid status has been the IVC collapsibility index (IVC CI) - which has shown encouraging results as a guide to fluid therapy. Studies have shown that there is an increase in CVP and decrease in IVC collapsibility with fluid replacement, as well as that both are affected by changes in intrathoracic pressure and right heart dysfunction.

measurement of (IVC CI) is calculated by ultrasound through maximum IVC diameter - minimum IVC diameter divided by minimum diameter then multiplied by 100.

if it is less than 50% means that the patient is volume non- depleted while if it is more than 50% means the reverse.

The other recent non-invasive monitoring tool is electrical cardiometry. Its idea is based on electrical impedance. The variations in impedance are calculated using an algorithm that allows measurement of the CO as well as other key haemodynamic parameters including preload (Thoracic Fluid Index), afterload (systemic vascular resistance, SVR). This has helped provide a sound guide to each individual patient's response to fluid therapy and selection of the proper cardiovascular medications and support.

To compare the efficacy of non-invasive cardiometry and ultrasound (US) guided inferior vena cava (IVC) collapsibility when assessing the response of septic patients to fluid therapy guidelines of The Third International Consensus Definitions for Sepsis and Septic Shock (Sepsis-3); in the first six hours of ICU admission .