Stereotactic Radiosurgery in Treating Patients With Spinal Metastases
RATIONALE: Stereotactic radiosurgery can send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue. It may also help patients with spinal metastases live more comfortably.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of stereotactic radiosurgery in treating patients with spinal metastases.
Metastatic Cancer
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: diffusion tensor imaging|PROCEDURE: functional magnetic resonance imaging|RADIATION: hypo-fractionated SRS|RADIATION: single-fraction SRS
Maximum tolerated dose - single fraction, Maximum tolerated dose of CyberKnife® hypofractionated stereotactic radiosurgery, 6 weeks|Maximum tolerated dose - hypofraction, Maximum tolerated dose of CyberKnife® hypofractionated stereotactic radiosurgery, 6 weeks
Assessment of pain, Pain as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory and Roland scale, baseline and then at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months after completion of treatment|Spinal cord response, Spinal cord response as measured by functional MRI, baseline and then at 6 weeks and 6 months after completion of treatment
OBJECTIVES:

* To implement CyberKnife® technology for improving palliation in patients with spinal metastases.
* To determine the maximum tolerated dose of CyberKnife® hypofractionated stereotactic radiosurgery in these patients.
* To evaluate functional and diffusion MRI parameters in the spinal cord and tumor after treatment with Cyberknife® radiosurgery.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo placement of gold fiducial markers at the time of open surgical resection or percutaneous needle biopsy. Patients then undergo CyberKnife® hypofractionated stereotactic radiosurgery over 30-90 minutes daily for 2-3 days.

Patients undergo functional MRI and diffusion tensor imaging at baseline and then at 6 weeks and 6 months after completion of treatment. Patients also complete a pain questionnaire at baseline and then at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months after completion of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.