Surgical Trial to Evaluate the Impact of a Lymphoscintigraphy Prior to Sentinel Node Biopsy in Early Breast Cancer
Sentinel node biopsy is a well established tool for axillary staging in early breast cancer. So far the impact of a preoperative lymph node scintigraphy is unclear. This study aims to clarify whether a preoperative lymphoscintigraphy is of additional benefit in a prospective randomized multicenter study design.
Early-Stage Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: without preoperative access to lymphoscintigraphy findings
Average number of histologically detected sentinel lymph nodes per patient, Number of resected sentinel lymph nodes is inversely correlated with false negative rate of sentinel lymph node biopsy. Average number of histologically detected sentinel lymph nodes per patient is assessed through pathologic report and serves as surrogate marker for false negative rate of sentinel node biopsy., Histological report expected within an average of 2 weeks after sentinel lymph node biopsy
Rate of patients with proven metastasis in sentinel lymph nodes, Histological report expected within an average of 2 weeks after sentinel lymph node biopsy|Rate of completion axillary dissection with proven metastasis in sentinel lymph nodes, A completion axillary dissection can be performed in case of proven metastasis in sentinel lymph nodes. A completion axillary dissection ca be performed either right away during sentinel lymph node biopsy or after completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Hence assessment will be performed within 6 months after initial sentinel lymph node biopsy in order to include all patients planned for neoadjuvant chemotherapy., histological report on subsequent completion axillary dissection within 6 months after initial sentinel lymph node biopsy|Detection rates of sentinel nodes lymph nodes with preoperative lymphoscintigraphy vs. intraoperative gamma probe and histological detection rates of sentinel lymph nodes with vs. without preoperative access to lymphoscintigraphy, Histological report expected within an average of 2 weeks after sentinel lymph node biopsy
Sentinel node biopsy is a well established tool for axillary staging in early breast cancer. So far the impact of a preoperative lymph node scintigraphy is unclear. Several studies indicate sentinel node biopsy to be a reliable method irrespective of prior lymph node scintigraphy, but data from prospective randomized trials are not available.

Although a preoperative lymph node scintigraphy is not explicitly demanded in current S3 guidelines in Germany its performance is a common practice.

If a preoperative lymphoscintigraphy could be safely omitted, possible benefits are a facilitation of the preoperative workflow as well as cost reduction for health care systems.

This study aims to clarify whether a preoperative lymphoscintigraphy is of additional benefit in a prospective randomized study design. In the two study arms sentinel node biopsy is performed either with or without knowledge of the preoperative lymphoscintigraphy findings. Primary end point is the average number of histologically detected sentinel lymph nodes per patient in both treatment arms.