Testing the Combination of the Anti-cancer Drugs Copanlisib, Olaparib, and MEDI4736 (Durvalumab) in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors With Selected Mutations
This phase Ib trial studies side effects and best dose of copanlisib and olaparib when given together with durvalumab, and how well they work in treating patients with solid tumors that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Copanlisib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. PARPs are proteins that help repair DNA mutations. PARP inhibitors, such as olaparib, can keep PARP from working, so tumor cells can't repair themselves, and they may stop growing. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving combinations of copanlisib and olaparib or copanlisib, olaparib, and durvalumab may work better in treating patients with solid tumors compared to usual treatments such as surgery, radiation, or other chemotherapy drugs.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Copanlisib Hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Olaparib|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) of copanlisib and olaparib, Will employ the Bayesian optimal interval design (Liu and Yuan, 2015; Yuan et al., 2016) to determine the MTD., Up to 28 days
Objective response rate (ORR = complete response [CR] + partial [PR]), Anti-tumor activity of the combination of copanlisib and olaparib, and of the triplet combination of copanlisib, olaparib, and durvalumab will be measured by ORR. Will estimate ORR with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Duration of response, Will use the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate this distribution., From time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Will use the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate this distribution., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will use the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate this distribution., Up to 2 years|Immune-modulatory changes, Will assess immuno-modulatory changes of copanlisib and olaparib, and of the triplet combination of copanlisib, olaparib and durvalumab using paired t-tests or Wilcoxon signed rank tests., Baseline up to 2 years|PI3K pathway signaling marker levels, Will assess associations between marker levels (e.g. phosphorylated Akt \[pAkt\], pS6, p4EBP1) and response using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, graphical analysis, and logistic regression analysis as appropriate., Up to 2 years|Single nucleotide variation profile, Will assess associations between marker levels and response using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, graphical analysis, and logistic regression analysis as appropriate., Up to 2 years|Copy number variation profile, Will assess associations between marker levels and response using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, graphical analysis, and logistic regression analysis as appropriate., Up to 2 years|Pharmacokinetics of copanlisib and olaparib (Step 1 doublet combination), Will assess associations between marker levels and response using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, graphical analysis, and logistic regression analysis as appropriate., Cycle 1, day 8: baseline, 30 minutes (min), 55 min post start copanlisib infusion, and 1 hour (h), 3h, 5h, 7h, and 23h after end of copanlisib infusion and cycle 1, day 15: baseline, 30 min, 55 min post start copanlisib infusion|Pharmacokinetics of copanlisib and olaparib- Dose level 3a (Step 1 doublet combination), Will assess associations between marker levels and response using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, graphical analysis, and logistic regression analysis as appropriate., Cycle 1, day 15: baseline, 30 min, 55 min post start copanlisib infusion, and 1 h, 3h, 5h, 7h, and 23h post end of copanlisib infusion|Pharmacokinetics of durvalumab (Step 2 triplet combination), Will assess associations between marker levels and response using receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, graphical analysis, and logistic regression analysis as appropriate., Cycle 1, day 15: baseline, 30 min, 55 min post start copanlisib infusion, and 1 h, 3h, 5h, 7h, and 23h post end of copanlisib infusion and cycles 2-5, day 1: baseline and 50 min post start durvalumab infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety and establish the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the doublet combination of copanlisib and olaparib and of the triplet combination of copanlisib, olaparib and MEDI4736 (durvalumab) in patients with molecularly-selected solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity of the doublet combination of copanlisib and olaparib, and of the triplet combination of copanlisib, olaparib and MEDI4736 (durvalumab) in patients with molecularly-selected advanced solid tumors, as measured by objective response rate (ORR) (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]). Although the clinical benefit of the doublet and triplet combination of these drugs has not yet been established, the intent of offering this treatment is to provide a possible therapeutic benefit, and thus the patient will be carefully monitored for tumor response and symptom relief in addition to safety and tolerability.

II. To assess overall duration of response (DoR), progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

III. To assess the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of these combinations, and explore exposure-response relationships.

IV. To correlate molecular alterations with OR (CR+PR).

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of copanlisib and olaparib.

Patients receive copanlisib hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1 and 15 or days 1, 8, and 15 depending on dose level and olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Beginning cycle 2, patients receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples at baseline within 7 days of cycle 1 day 1 (C1D1), days 8 and 15 of cycle 1 and day 15 of subsequent cycles, at time of restaging, and end of treatment/progression. Patients undergo x-ray, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at the end of cycle 2 and then every 8 weeks. Patients also undergo an echocardiography (ECHO) during pre-study within 28 days of C1D1 and tumor biopsy at baseline within 7 days of C1D1 and day 15 of cycle 1 or 2, and may undergo an optional biopsy at end of treatment/progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for up to 2 years.