Corticosteroids + Bevacizumab vs. Corticosteroids + Placebo (BEST) for Radionecrosis After Radiosurgery for Brain Metastases
This randomized phase II study aims to investigate whether the addition of bevacizumab to standard corticosteroid therapy results in greater improvement in symptoms and less treatment-induced symptoms compared with standard corticosteroid therapy for patients with symptomatic brain radionecrosis following radiosurgery. It is hypothesized that the addition of bevacizumab to standard care corticosteroids will reduce treatment-induced toxicities and improve neurologic impairments in patients with brain radionecrosis following radiosurgery for brain metastases.
Radionecrosis|Brain Metastases
DRUG: bevacizumab|DRUG: corticosteroids|OTHER: placebo
Change in M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory Brain Tumor (MDASI-BT) Symptom Severity Score, The MD Anderson Symptom Inventory for brain tumor (MDASI-BT) is a 28-item multi-symptom patient-reported outcome measure assessing the severity of symptoms experienced by cancer patients and the interference with daily living caused by these symptoms, with 9 items specific to brain tumors. Each item ranges from 0 (best condition) to 10 (worst condition). A subscale score (Symptom Severity) is the average of the subscale items with 0 being "not present" and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine.", given that a specified minimum numbers of items were completed. A negative change in score from baseline to given time point indicates a worsening score., Baseline, 2, 4, 6 and 8 weeks
Toxicity (CTCAE Version 4.0), Toxicity associated with bevacizumab and corticosteroids in patients with radionecrosis using CTCAE Version 4.0. The number of patients reporting a grade 3 or higher, 4 or higher, or 5 at least possibly related to treatment are included in this table., Up to 1.5 years post-treatment|Quality of Life Measure Using the Single Item Linear Analogue Scale (LASA), The Linear Analogue Scale used is a 5-question survey. Patients are asked to score the following questions on a 1(as bad as it can be) -10 (as good as it can be) scale: 1) your overall quality of life, 2) your overall (intellectual) well being, 3) your overall physical well being, 4) your overall emotional well being, and 5) your overall spiritual well being. The change in score was computed from baseline to 1.5 years post-treatment. A negative difference is thought of as a worsening score from baseline., Up to 1.5 years post-treatment|Quality of Life Measure Using the Dexamethasone Symptoms Questionnaire - Chronic (DSQ-C), The DSQ-C was developed for use in the brain tumor patient population. It consists of 18 questions rated on a 4-point scale (1 to 4, with 4 indicating a worse symptom) to indicate the presence and severity of symptoms. For each patient, the sum across all 18 questions were computed(18-72, with 18 being a score of 1 for each of the 18 questions and 72 being a score of 4 for each of the questions, refering to the previous sentence, a score of 18(a score of 1, 18 times) indicates the best possible score. A score of 72(a score of 4, 18 times) indicates the worst possible. The mean for total score across each week (weeks 2, 4, 6, 8) is reported., Baseline and weeks 2, 4, 6, 8 of treatment|Quality of Life Measure Using the The M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory-Brain Tumor Module (MDASI-BT) Score., The MDASI-BT was developed and validated for use in the brain tumor patient population, including those with brain metastases and typically requires less than 4 minutes to complete. It consists of 23 symptoms rated on a 0 to 10 numerical rating scale (NRS) to indicate the presence and severity of the symptom, with 0 being "not present" and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine." MDASI-BT Symptom Scoring: A global symptom score for the MDASI symptom severity scale is obtained by taking the average of the 23 items together. This puts the score on a 0-10 scalenumerical rating scale (NRS) to indicate the presence and severity of the symptom, with 0 being "not present" and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine." The mean global symptom at baseline and at weeks 2, 4, 6, 8 were used in this analysis., Up to 1.5 years post-treatment|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time from start of treatment to the earliest of the date patient stops placebo or bevacizumab for either alternative therapy or crossover to bevacizumab (if initially on placebo). Result will be summarized by Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 16 weeks|Time to Maximum Radiographic Response, Time from start of treatment to maximum radiographic response, Up to 16 weeks|Time to Stopping Corticosteroids, Time to stopping corticosteroids is defined as the time from start of protocol treatment to the last day corticosteroids were given. Time to stopping corticosteroid will be summarized by Kaplan-Meier curve with log-rank tests conducted to investigate differences between treatment arms., Up to 16 weeks
This is a randomized double-blinded phase II study of corticosteroids with bevacizumab vs. corticosteroids with placebo for brain radionecrosis following radiosurgery for brain metastases. This is a two-arm clinical trial with parallel group design for longitudinal quality of life endpoint. Patients will be stratified according to age (≤ 65 years vs. \> 65 years), pathological confirmation of necrosis (yes vs. no), MDASI-BT mean global score (symptom + interference scores) ( \< 4.0 vs. \> 4.0) and prior whole brain radiotherapy (yes vs. no). The primary and secondary objectives are detailed below.

Primary Objective:

To investigate whether the addition of bevacizumab to standard corticosteroid therapy results in greater improvement in symptoms (clinical and patient-reported symptom improvement associated with radionecrosis and less radionecrosis treatment-induced symptoms) compared with standard corticosteroid therapy.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To evaluate the toxicity profile associated with bevacizumab and corticosteroid therapy.
2. To compare self-reported health related quality of life (HRQOL) using LASA, Dexamethasone Symptoms Questionnaire-Chronic (DSQ-C), and MDASI-BT symptom and interference score between treatment arms.
3. To compare intracranial progression-free survival and time to maximum radiographic response between treatment arms.
4. To compare the dose and duration of corticosteroids required between treatment arms and correlate steroid requirement with DSQ-C and MDASI-BT scores.

Patient event monitoring will occur every 2 months after treatment up to 6 months. Then event monitoring will occur up to one year.