Study of Rituximab or Tocilizumab for Patients With Steroid-Dependent Immune-Related Adverse Events (irAEs)
The purpose of this study is to examine how effective rituximab or tocilizumab are in treating side effects for people who are receiving immunotherapy treatment requiring prolonged steroid use.

Immune-related side effects are caused by the activation of the immune system. Because rituximab and tocilizumab have been shown to effectively in treating other diseased that involve immune system activation, this study seeks to evaluate how effective they will be in treating immune-related side effects in people receiving immunotherapy treatment for cancer.
Immune-related Adverse Events|Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Tocilizumab
Percentage of Participants to Discontinue Steroid Treatment After Rituximab, The percentage of participants able to discontinue steroid treatment within 4 weeks after the last dose of Rituximab., Up to 8 weeks|Percentage of Participants to Discontinue Steroid Treatment After Tocilizumab, The percentage of participants able to discontinue steroid treatment within 4 weeks after the last dose of Tocilizumab., Up to 12 weeks
Number of Participants with a Change in CTCAE (v5.0) Grade, The number of participants with a change in CTCAE (v5.0) grade in participants who develop steroid-dependent immune related adverse events., Up to 24 weeks|The Number Steroid-Dependent Immune-Related Adverse Events, To evaluate the safety of rituximab and tocilizumab defined as the number of steroid-dependent immune-related adverse events., Up to 24 weeks
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of two drugs, either rituximab or tocilizumab, in patients who develop side effects while on treatment with immunotherapy requiring prolonged steroids. Immune-related side effects are caused by activation of the immune system from treatment with immunotherapy. Both rituximab and tocilizumab have been given to patients with autoimmune diseases (diseases where the immune system is activated against normal organs). Immune-related side effects appear to closely mirror these autoimmune conditions.

Participants in this study have developed an immune-related adverse event while on immunotherapy and require a long course of steroids to manage this side effect. Steroids can cause many side effects with prolonged use including problems with sleep, weight gain, diabetes, muscle loss, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, bone loss, and mood disturbances. Drugs such as rituximab and tocilizumab have been shown to be effective in other diseases involving immune system activation. This study is evaluating the effectiveness of these drugs in patients who have immune-related side effects by their ability to help patients discontinue steroids.