A Study of HC-5404-FU to Establish the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD)
Study HC-404-FCP-2011 is a first in human, Phase 1a, multi-center, open-label study to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and evaluate the safety and tolerability of oral dosing of HC-5404-FU in a dose-escalating fashion. Up to 36 qualified subjects at 3 to 5 US sites, who have specific tumor types of renal cell carcinoma (RCC), gastric cancer (GC), metastatic breast cancer (MBC), small cell lung cancer (SCLC), and other solid tumors (e.g., non-small cell lung cancer, colorectal cancer, carcinoma of unknown primary) with the exception of rapidly progressing neoplasms (e.g., pancreatic cancer, glioblastoma, hepatocellular carcinoma) will receive HC-5404-FU. Every effort will be made to ensure approximately 50% of all subjects enrolled will be subjects with RCC and GC. The starting dose level is 25 mg twice daily (BID), escalating to 50, 100, and 200 mg BID as safety allows, following the Bayesian Optimal Interval (BOIN) design. The safety monitoring committee (SMC) will evaluate the DLTs and cumulative safety and PK data at the end of each cohort. Based on the SMC recommendations after a comprehensive review of PK and safety data for 200 mg BID dose, higher dose levels will be evaluated, starting with 400 mg BID. The dose will escalate to 600 mg and then 900 mg following the BOIN design starting with 1 subject at each escalated dose, until the MTD is reached or the sponsor or SMC declares the dose most appropriate for clinical development. This Phase 1a will be expanded into a Phase 1b/2a study through a protocol amendment and will then assess the dose and tumor type(s) selected in Phase 1a as the most appropriate for further clinical development. Subjects will be dosed until unacceptable toxicity, disease progression per immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST), subject withdrawal, any other administrative reasons, or after 2 years of treatment, whichever occurs first. Efficacy will be assessed via Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1); computed tomography (CT) scans will be conducted every 6 weeks. Safety, including occurrence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), pharmacokinetics (PK), and biomarker parameters will also be assessed.
Renal Cell Carcinoma|Gastric Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer|Small-cell Lung Cancer|Other Solid Tumors
DRUG: HC-5404-FU
Determination of MTD of HC-5404-FU, When orally administered in a dose escalating fashion in subjects with selected, advanced solid tumors, Within 18 months of last patient enrolled|Occurrence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), Within 18 months of last patient enrolled|Incidence and severity of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and treatment related TEAEs according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v 5.0, Within 18 months of last patient enrolled|Incidence of TEAEs leading to premature discontinuation, Within 18 months of last patient enrolled|Incidence of significant laboratory abnormalities, based on hematology, serum chemistry, and urinalysis test results, Within 18 months of last patient enrolled|Incidence of abnormalities observed in 12 lead ECG parameters, Within 18 months of last patient enrolled|Incidence of abnormalities observed in vital signs measurements and physical examinations, Within 18 months of last patient enrolled
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time 0 until last measurable concentration (AUC0 last), Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time 0 to 12 hours postdose (AUC0 12), Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve from time 0 extrapolated to infinity (AUC0 ∞), Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve over a dosing interval (AUC0 t), Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Peak plasma concentration (Cmax), Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Time of the maximum observed plasma concentration (tmax), Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Apparent total clearance (CL/F) of plasma concentration, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Apparent volume of distribution during the terminal phase (Vz/F) of plasma concentration, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Apparent terminal elimination half life (t1/2) of plasma concentration, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Accumulation ratio based on AUC0 t (ARAUC) of plasma concentration, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Linearity ratio (LR) of plasma concentration, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Overall response rate (ORR) to HC-5404-FU using iRECIST, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Duration of response (DOR) to HC-5404-FU using iRECIST, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Time to treatment failure (TTF), Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Progression-free survival (PFS) using iRECIST, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled|Overall response (OS) using iRECIST, Within 24 months of last patient enrolled
HC 5404-FU will be orally administered BID with food or within 30 minutes of completing a meal, starting at 25 mg, with doses escalating to 50, 100, 200, 400, 600 and 900 mg BID as safety allows. Up to 24 subjects will be enrolled to ensure 12 subjects complete the study at the estimated MTD of HC 5404-FU. Dosing will occur in 3-week cycles. Subjects are to spend Cycle 1/Day 1 (C1D1) in the clinic followed by an overnight stay for safety monitoring and PK sampling. Subjects will be hospitalized for administration of first 3 doses: C1D1 am and pm doses, and Cycle 1/Day 2 (C1D2) am dose; on Days 8, 15, and 21 the am dose will be taken in the clinic after the planned PK samples. All other doses are to be self administered at home. After the initial hospital stay at the start of study, subjects will be seen in outpatient clinic on Days 8, 15, and 21 of Cycle 1 for PK assessment and thereafter, the first day of each cycle for physical and laboratory assessments, adverse event (AE), and dosing compliance monitoring; the end of treatment visit will also be in person in outpatient clinic.

Following completion of the treatment period of the study, subjects will be monitored for survival up for up to 24 months after the last post treatment follow-up visit.

Dose escalation will follow the Bayesian Optimal Interval (BOIN) design. The decision to escalate to the next dose level will be based on safety assessments after all subjects of a cohort have reached the end of Cycle 1/Day 21 (DLT evaluation period). The safety monitoring committee (SMC) will be responsible for dose escalation decisions, including whether to modify the dose escalation based on the DLT observations and review of available PK data.

The target toxicity rate of 30%, with limits of 0.236 to 0.359 for escalation/de escalation, will be employed to determine the MTD. With these predefined parameters, when the observed toxicity rate in a dose level is less than 0.236, the dose for the next cohort can escalate. If the observed toxicity rate is higher than 0.359, the dose will de escalate. Otherwise, the dose remains the same.

Individual subjects may be considered for treatment at a higher dose than the dose to which they were initially assigned after subject has completed 2 cycles of treatment and 1 postbaseline CT scan and maintained at least a stable disease (SD) response. In order to escalate a dose level, the subject must have tolerated his/her current dose level without experiencing a DLT, and the dose level to which the subject is planned to be escalated must have completed a DLT evaluation period, not exceeded the MTD, and been declared safe. Each subject can go through 2 dose escalations and do not need to go through a DLT evaluation period for either escalation. Intrasubject dose escalation will be considered on a case-by-case basis, each case to be assessed and approved by the sponsor.