Evaluation of Clinical Efficacy of Acupuncture in Improving Immune Response in Patients With Cervical Cancer
In a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled study, patients with metastatic, recurrent, or persistent cervical cancer who were ineligible for surgery and/or radiotherapy were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either an experimental group or a control group." The control group was treated with apatinib combined with callizumab/callizumab combined with chemotherapy, and the experimental group was treated with electroacupuncture on the basis of the treatment. Anti-tumor efficacy, immune function efficacy, quality of life and safety were used as the outcome indicators.
Cervical Cancer
OTHER: electropuncture
objective remission rate, ORR refers to the proportion of patients whose tumor volume has shrunk to a predetermined value and can maintain the minimum time required. Cases with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) were included., The patients were evaluated every 8 weeks ±2 weeks from the beginning of treatment until 40 weeks, and then every 12 weeks ±2 weeks until the end of treatment.
progression free survival, ORR refers to the proportion of patients whose tumor volume has shrunk to a predetermined value and can maintain the minimum time required. Cases with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) were included., The patients were evaluated every 8 weeks ±2 weeks from the beginning of treatment until 40 weeks, and then every 12 weeks ±2 weeks until the end of treatment.|overall survival, From randomization to the time of death from any cause., The patients were followed up until death or at least 2 years|disease control rate, DCR refers to the proportion of patients whose tumor volume has shrunk or stabilized to a predetermined value and can maintain the minimum time required. Cases with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD) were included, The patients were evaluated every 8 weeks ±2 weeks from the beginning of treatment until 40 weeks, and then every 12 weeks ±2 weeks until the end of treatment.|Tumor marker, Tumor marker level of CA 125 and SCC., The patients were evaluated every 8 weeks ±2 weeks from the beginning of treatment until 40 weeks, and then every 12 weeks ±2 weeks until the end of treatment.|Quality of life improvement, Use scale to evaluated the quality of life of patients., The patients were evaluated every 8 weeks ±2 weeks from the beginning of treatment until 40 weeks, and then every 12 weeks ±2 weeks until the end of treatment.|Adverse events associated with immunotherapy and targeted therapy and their severity, NCI CTCAE V5.0 evaluation criteria for adverse events, including but not limited to skin reactions, pneumonia, colitis, nephritis, endocrine diseases, etc, The patients were evaluated every 8 weeks ±2 weeks from the beginning of treatment until 40 weeks, and then every 12 weeks ±2 weeks until the end of treatment.|Security Index, Blood, urine, stool routine, liver function (ALT, AST), kidney function (Cr, BUN) examination., he patients were evaluated every 8 weeks ±2 weeks from the beginning of treatment until 40 weeks, and then every 12 weeks ±2 weeks until the end of treatment.
1. Study Design Types:

   This was a prospective, multicenter, randomized controlled clinical study.
2. Random method:

   This study used central randomization method. A total of 90 patients with recurrent/metastatic cervical cancer were enrolled and divided into 8 research centers. Patients were divided into control group (group A) and experimental group (group B) according to the pathological type, PD-L1 expression level, immunotherapy combined with targeted therapy/immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy as stratification factors at each research center. The block length was 6, and the allocation ratio was 1∶1.
3. Control methods:

   This trial included a control group and an experimental group. The intervention measures of the experimental group included acupuncture + immunotherapy + targeted therapy/acupuncture + immunotherapy + chemotherapy. The intervention measures of the control group were immunotherapy + targeted therapy/immunotherapy + chemotherapy.
4. Sample size calculation:

This study intends to conduct preliminary exploratory research and use small samples for clinical observation. The sample size of each group of exploratory research should be more than 30 according to literature. This exploratory study intends to include 90 patients to be allocated to the experimental group and the control group