Adjuvant Adebrelimab Plus Apatinib for Participants With HCC at High-risk of Recurrence After Curative Resection
This is a single-center, single-arm, open-label clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Adebrelimab plus Apatinib as adjuvant therapy in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) participants who are at high risk of recurrence after curative resection.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
DRUG: Adebrelimab + Apatinib
RFS Rate at 12 and 24 Months, Recurrence-free survival rate at 12 and 24 Months, up to 24 months
overall survival, Defined as the time from enrollment to death from any cause, 3 years|Time to Recurrence, The time interval between liver resection and diagnosis of HCC recurrence, up to 3 years|recurrence-free survival, Ratio of participants from first treatment to disease recurrence, up to 3 years
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a malignant tumor with high morbidity and mortality. Surgical resection is the most important radical treatment. However, the recurrence rate is high especially in the participants with high risk of recurrence after curative resection.

Adebelimumab is a humanized anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody independently developed by Hengrui Pharmaceutical. It can specifically bind to PD-L1 molecules to block the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway that leads to tumor immune tolerance, reactivate the anti-tumor activity of the immune system, and achieve the goal of treating tumors. As of October 8, 2021, adebelimumab has conducted several clinical studies in various malignant tumor fields and has shown good anti-tumor efficacy and controllable safety.

Therefore, the investigators plan to conduct a prospective clinical study targeting HCC participants at high risk of postoperative recurrence, to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of postoperative adjuvant therapy with adebelimumab combined with apatinib. This study has the potential to provide efficient new treatment options for participants, which is of great significance for improving the survival rate and quality of life of liver cancer participants in general.

A mid-term analysis will be conducted on the recurrence free survival rate and survival rate, at 6 months after the enrollment of 30 participants.