Skin Ageing Signatures and Cancer
The aim of this study is to identify genetic patterns in normal ageing skin in order to better understand age-related changes.

Data has suggested that skin ageing has a genetic basis and past studies have identified genes that promote skin aging due to sun exposure.
Skin Cancer
Recruitment of 10 patients with high or low skin ageing scores and collection of normal sun exposed and non-sun exposed skin and blood for genetic analysis., Identify a genomic/transcriptomic molecular signature for skin ageing by correlation of whole genome sequencing and transcriptomic profiles of normal skin and clinically evaluated skin ageing scores, 1 Year
Whole genome sequencing and transcriptomic analysis of normal skin samples, Comparison of genomic and transcriptomic molecular signature for skin ageing with known genomic and transcriptomic signatures for cSCC, 1 Year
This study will use new tools in an attempt to understand the small changes that take place in skin and may be linked to skin ageing either due to age or the effect of the sun. Some data suggests that these changes may have a genetic basis.

In this study, the doctor will use a clinical scale to assess the participants skin type, the scale will range from 1-5 with 1 being fairer skin types and 5 being darker skin types. The doctors will select 10 female participants who meet the required skin types (1-4), aged between 55 and 65 years who attend clinics for reasons other than skin cancer or other skin diseases. 5 of these patients will have high levels of skin ageing and 5 will have low levels of skin ageing as defined by a set of pre-defined criteria. The criteria will be identified by examining the skin on the participants face and forearm. The study sponsor will collect skin and blood samples from all participants in the high and low skin ageing groups and these will be sent to a specialist laboratory for DNA and RNA analysis (genetic analysis).

The study sponsor hope that this will help us understand the effects of ageing on skin's normal functions but also help us interpret results coming out of other genetic studies in skin cancer. This information will help to better understand the changes linked with the development of skin cancer.