Intratumoral Injection of IP-001 Following Thermal Ablation in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors.
The therapeutic approach taken by trial SAKK 66/17 is different from those already used in clinical practice and possibly offers patients a therapeutic benefit after failure of standard chemotherapy and immunotherapy.

Patients with laser ablation-accessible solid tumors are treated by thermal ablation followed immediately by an intratumoral injection of IP-001 (1 % N-dihydro-galacto-chitosan, Immunophotonics Inc.) for injection). IP-001 is intended to trigger a tumor-specific systemic immune response when exposed to tumor antigens liberated by thermal ablation. There is strong preclinical and early clinical evidence that combining thermal ablation with IP-001 might be able to turn 'cold' tumors into 'hot' tumors, inducing a systemic immune response. This may result in shrinkage of the treated tumor, as well as, long-term response mediated by the patient's immunological defense system against any remaining tumor cells (residual primary and metastatic tumor cells) including tumor cells outside or distant from the treated area (also known as abscopal effect).

This trial will provide information on the safety and tolerability of thermal ablation followed immediately by an intratumoral IP-001 injection (Ablation + IP-001) in patients with laser ablation-accessible solid tumors ('all comers', Part 1 - safety run in). Further information on safety and tolerability, as well as preliminary antitumor activity, will be evaluated in patients with soft tissue sarcoma (Part 2, Cohort1), whereas in melanoma patients, anti-tumor activity will be defined as a primary objective (Part 2, Cohort 2).

The trial treatment consists of an Ablation + IP-001 in 4-week intervals for up to 6 scheduled treatments. Thermal ablation will be performed according to the instruction of the medical device, and IP-001 will be administered in different dose levels according to the trial design. All patients will be followed until progression of disease or until the start of a subsequent treatment.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: IP-001|DEVICE: Thermal Ablation
Part 1 and Part 2, cohort 1 (expansion cohort - STS): Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), The primary endpoint is the frequency of DLTs which are relevant for the determination the tentative RP2D in Part 1 of the trial., Day 1 to day 28|Part 2, Cohort 2 (phase IIa - melanoma): Disease control (DC) according to RECIST 1.1, DC is defined as any complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) for 12 weeks from start of treatment according to RECIST 1.1 criteria achieved during trial treatment. Any patient with CR, PR or SD (≥ 12 weeks) as best observed response during trial treatment will be considered as a success; otherwise they will be considered as a failure.

Patients without any response assessment during trial treatment will be regarded as having a non-evaluable response (NE) and thus will be considered as failures for this endpoint., up to 12 weeks from treatment start
Objective response according to iRECIST (iOR), iOR is defined as any complete response (CR/iCR) or partial response (PR/iPR) according to RECIST 1.1 or iRECIST criteria achieved during trial treatment until disease progression according to iRECIST, death or subsequent anticancer treatment, whichever occurs first. Any patient with CR/iCR or PR/iPR as best observed response during trial treatment until disease progression according to iRECIST, death or subsequent anticancer treatment (whichever occurs first) will be considered as a success; otherwise they will be considered as a failure.

Patients without any objective response assessment during trial treatment until disease progression according to iRECIST, death or subsequent anticancer treatment (whichever occurs first) will be regarded as having a NE and thus will be considered as failures for this endpoint., up to 12 weeks from treatment start|Disease control according to iRECIST (iDC), iDC is defined as any complete response (CR/iCR), partial response (PR/iPR) or stable disease (SD/iSD) for 12 weeks according to RECIST 1.1 or iRECIST criteria achieved during trial treatment until disease progression according to iRECIST, death or start of a subsequent anticancer treatment, whichever occurs first. Any patient with CR/iCR, PR/iPR or SD/iSD (≥12 weeks) as best observed response during trial treatment until disease progression according to iRECIST, death or start of a subsequent anticancer treatment (whichever occurs first) will be considered as a success; otherwise they will be considered as a failure.

Patients without any response assessment during trial treatment until disease progression according to iRECIST, death or start of a subsequent anticancer treatment (whichever occurs first) will be regarded as having a NE and thus will be considered as failures for this endpoint., up to 12 weeks from treatment start|Duration of response according to iRECIST (iDoR), iDoR is defined as the time from the first documentation of iOR until disease progression according to iRECIST criteria (iPD) or death due to disease progression.

iPD is defined as the time point of first iUPD without subsequent iSD, iPR or iCR before trial treatment discontinuation.

Patients not experiencing an event at the time of the analysis, as well as patients starting a subsequent anticancer treatment in the absence of an event, will be censored at the date of their last available tumor assessment showing no evidence of iPD before starting a subsequent anticancer treatment, if any., from date of response until date of disease progression according to iRECIST or death due to disease progression, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years|Progression-free survival according to iRECIST (iPFS), iPFS is defined as the time from treatment start until disease progression according to iRECIST criteria (iPD) or death due to any reason, whichever occurs first.

iPD is defined as the time point of first iUPD without subsequent iSD, iPR or iCR before trial treatment discontinuation.

Patients not experiencing an event at the time of the analysis, as well as patients starting a subsequent anticancer treatment in the absence of an event, will be censored at the date of their last available tumor assessment before starting a subsequent anticancer treatment, if any., from treatment start until date of disease progression according to iRECIST or death due to any reason, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years|Objective response (OR) according to RECIST 1.1, OR is defined as any complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1 criteria achieved during trial treatment. Any patient with CR or PR as best observed response during trial treatment will be considered as a success; otherwise they will be considered as a failure.

Patients without any objective response assessment during trial treatment will be regarded as having a NE and thus will be considered as failures for this endpoint., up to 24 weeks from treatment start|Disease control (DC) according to RECIST 1.1 (only for Part 2, Cohort 1), DC is defined as any complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) for 12 weeks from registration according to RECIST 1.1 criteria achieved during trial treatment. Any patient with CR, PR or SD (≥ 12 weeks) as best observed response during trial treatment will be considered as a success; otherwise they will be considered as a failure.

Patients without any response assessment during trial treatment will be regarded as having a NE and thus will be considered as failures for this endpoint., up to 24 weeks from treatment start|Duration of response (DoR) according to RECIST 1.1, DoR is defined as the time from the first documentation of OR until disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 criteria or death due to disease progression, whichever occurs first.

Patients not experiencing an event at the time of the analysis, as well as patients starting a subsequent anticancer treatment in the absence of an event, will be censored at the date of their last available tumor assessment before starting a subsequent anticancer treatment, if any., from date of response until date of disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 or death due to disease progression, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) according to RECIST 1.1, PFS is defined as the time from treatment start until disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 criteria or death due to any reason, whichever occurs first.

Patients not experiencing an event at the time of the analysis, as well as patients starting a subsequent anticancer treatment in the absence of an event, will be censored at the date of their last available tumor assessment before starting a subsequent anticancer treatment, if any., from treatment start until date of disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 or death due to any reason, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years
Despite constant progress in the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors failing standard systemic treatment, there is still a high unmet medical need to develop new active anticancer drugs or therapies. Although patients with advanced melanoma have benefitted substantially from the new checkpoint inhibitors, monoclonal antibodies, etc., those patients progressing after such treatment are still in high need of additional treatment options. In the field of advanced sarcoma, little to no progress has been made in the last years, and chemotherapy is still standard treatment for these patients. The therapeutic approach taken by trial SAKK 66/17 is different from those already used in clinical practice and possibly offers patients a therapeutic benefit after failure of standard chemotherapy and immunotherapy. There is strong preclinical and early clinical evidence that combining thermal ablation with IP-001 (1 % N-dihydro-galacto-chitosan, Immunophotonics Inc.) for injection) might be able to turn 'cold' tumors into 'hot' tumors, inducing a systemic immune response. This may result in shrinkage of the treated tumor, as well as long-term response mediated by the patient's immunological defense system against any remaining tumor cells (residual primary and metastatic tumor cells), including tumor cells outside or distant from the treated area (also known as abscopal effect).

The primary objective of Part 1 is to determine the safety and tolerability of thermal ablation followed immediately by an intratumoral IP-001 injection (Ablation + IP-001) in patients with laser ablation-accessible solid tumors ('all comers').

The primary objective of Part 2 - Cohort 1 (soft tissue sarcoma, STS) is to further determine the safety and tolerability of thermal ablation followed immediately by an intratumoral IP-001 injection (Ablation + IP-001) in the dose established in Part 1 of the trial.

The primary objective of Part 2 - Cohort 2 (melanoma) of the trial is to define anti-tumor activity of thermal ablation followed immediately by an intratumoral IP-001 injection (Ablation + IP-001) utilizing the dose established in Part 1 of the trial.

The secondary objective of the trial is

* to further determine the safety and tolerability of IP-001 (Part 2, Cohort 1 and 2)
* to assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity in STS patients (Part 2, Cohort 1)
* to observe further signs of clinical preliminary anti-tumor activity in patients with melanoma (Part 2, Cohort 2).