Comparison of Treatments for Barrett's Esophagus With High-Grade Dysplasia/Early Adenocarcinoma
Prospective randomized study comparing radiofrequency ablation and cryotherapy for the endoscopic treatment of Barrett's esophagus. The study is powered to assess clinical equivalence (non-inferior) of the treatment regimens.
Barrett's Esophagus
DEVICE: Radio-Frequency Ablation|DEVICE: Cryotherapy
Percentage of Barrett's esophagus ablated during the initial treatment session., The primary endpoint of this study is the percentage of Barrett's esophagus ablated during the initial treatment session., 2-3 months
Patient discomfort, The degree of patient discomfort (pain, amount of narcotics used) will be assessed during a telephone call to the patient 24-48 hours following the procedure., 2-3 days
Adult patients found to be suitable candidates for endoscopic treatment of Barrett's esophagus (BE) with high-grade dysplasia (HGD) and/or early adenocarcinoma of the esophagus will be asked to participate in this study. Patients will be randomized to receive either radiofrequency ablation or cryotherapy. All treatments will be performed using standard MGH GI Unit protocol. A total of fifty subjects will be enrolled.

Patients who have contraindications to endoscopic treatment (e.g., bleeding diathesis, pregnancy, severe medical comorbidities, advanced liver disease) or who decline participation in the study will be ineligible. Patients unable to provide their own consent will also be excluded.

This is a single-site study to be conducted at MGH.

After obtaining written informed consent, the patient will be randomized to receive either radiofrequency ablation or cryotherapy. Treatments will be carried out in accordance with standard MGH GI Unit practice. The primary endpoint of the study is the percentage of Barrett's esophagus ablated at the first follow-up visit (typically 2-3 months following therapy). At this point, the patient's role in the study will be terminated. They will continue to receive routine follow-up by their physician as needed.