Patients' Expectations About Effects of Robotic Surgery for Cancer
Robotic surgery for common surgical procedures is on the rise despite limited evidence to support its clinical benefit. We intend to to map and characterize the prevalence of the patients'expectation that robotic surgery might be superior to open or laparoscopic procedures and to identify the sociodemographic, clinical and organisational factors associated with this expectation.
Cancer|Robotic Surgery|Patients' Expectations
DEVICE: da Vinci Surgical Systems
Factors Associated With Patients' Decisions Factors Associated With Patients'Decisions to Choose Robotic Surgery, Factors Associated With Patients'Trends in the Adoption of Robotic Surgery for Common Surgical Procedures。According to the relevant regulations of the hospital inpatient satisfaction survey, we have developed a satisfaction rating scale, the evaluation is divided into five grades: "very satisfied" = 5, "relatively satisfied" = 4, "general" = 3, "not very satisfied" = 2, "very dissatisfied" = 1, the total score is 1-5., 2021.4-2022.4
Social demographic characteristics, Age, Sex, Education, Occupation, 2021.4-2022.4|Economic status, The ability to pay for medical expenses and the type of medical insurance.Based on the types of medical insurance in China, our survey design is divided into four categories: 1. China new rural cooperative medical system; 2. The medical insurance for urban residents; 3. The medical insurance for urban workers; 4. Commercial insurance. According to China's national income level, our survey design is divided into three stages: personal annual income below 50,000 RMB, 50,000-100,000 RMB, and more than 100,000 RMB., 2021.4-2022.4
With the progress of modern medicine, minimally invasive surgical technology has become the main theme in the field of contemporary surgery. As a rising star, the Da Vinci robotic surgery system provides surgeons with a more comprehensive surgical vision, more flexible instrument control, finer anatomy, and more natural comfort compared to open surgery and laparoscopic surgery. However, due to the lack of long-term theoretical basis, the evidence to support its clinical benefits is limited, and its application is limited by related postoperative complications and high operation-related costs. At present, the number of Da Vinci robotic surgery is steadily increasing around the world, but what are the expectations of patients that robotic surgery may be better than open or laparoscopic surgery? It is also unclear what reasons are related to this established expectation. Therefore, we intend to map and characterize the prevalence of the patients' expectation that robotic surgery might be superior to open or laparoscopic procedures and to identify the sociodemographic, clinical and organisational factors associated with this expectation.