Study to Evaluate the Immune Response and Safety of GSK Biologicals' HPV Vaccine in Healthy Women Aged 18-35 Years
Human papillomavirus infection has clearly been recognized as the cause of cervical cancer. The infection of the cervix by certain oncogenic types of HPV, if not cleared, can lead to cervical cancer in women. This study will evaluate the immunogenicity and safety of the HPV-16/18 L1 VLP AS04 vaccine.

The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007.
Infections, Papillomavirus
BIOLOGICAL: Placebo|BIOLOGICAL: HPV-16/18 L1 VLP AS04 (Cervarix TM)
Number of Subjects Who Seroconverted for Anti-human Papilloma Virus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papilloma Virus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Seroconversion is defined as the appearance of antibodies with titers greater than or equal to the predefined cut-off value in the serum of subjects seronegative before vaccination. Cut-off values assessed include 8 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay units per milliliter (EL.U/mL) for anti-HPV-16 antibodies and 7 EL.U/mL for anti-HPV-18 antibodies., At Month 7
Titers of Anti-human Papilloma Virus 16 (Anti-HPV-16) and Anti-human Papilloma Virus 18 (Anti-HPV-18) Antibodies, Titers are given as Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) expressed as Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay Units Per Milliliter (EL.U/mL)., At Month 0 and Month 7|Number of Subjects Reporting Solicited Symptoms, Solicited local symptoms assessed include pain, redness and swelling. Solicited general symptoms assessed include arthralgia, fatigue, fever, gastro-intestinal symptoms, headache, myalgia, rash and urticaria., During the 7 days after each vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs), Unsolicited adverse event = Any adverse event (AE) reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study. Also any "solicited" symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms was reported as an unsolicited adverse event., Within 30 days after any vaccination|Number of Subjects Reporting Unsolicited Adverse Events as New Onset Chronic Diseases (NOCDs) and Other Medically Significant Adverse Events (AEs), NOCDs assessed include e.g. autoimmune disorders, asthma, type I diabetes, allergies,...

Medically significant AEs assessed include AEs prompting emergency room or physician visits that are not related to common diseases or routine visits for physical examination or vaccination, or SAEs that are not related to common diseases., Throughout the study period (up to Month 7)|Number of Subjects Reporting Serious Adverse Events, Serious adverse events assessed include medical occurrences that results in death, is life threatening, require hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, result in disability/incapacity or are a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject., Throughout the study period (up to Month 7)
The protocol was primarily amended for the following reasons:

* Merck's tetravalent HPV vaccine, Gardasil®, has been licensed and is now becoming commercially available in an increasing number of countries. Therefore, the study procedures were revised to include questions at every visit to determine if subjects have received an HPV vaccine outside of the study.
* It was decided to offer GSK Biologicals' HPV vaccine to all subjects in the control group at the end of the study. The HPV vaccine will be offered to these subjects based on its local indication once the vaccine is marketed in Malaysia.