A Study to Reduce Persistent Post-mastectomy Pain Using Opioid-free Anesthesia
In 230 patients undergoing mastectomy, the investigators will compare opioid-free anesthesia (OFA) versus conventional opioid-based anesthesia in terms of chronic pain. The enrolled patients will be randomly assigned into two groups with 1:1 ratio. Chronic pain will be evaluated at 1 year after mastectomy based on the Breast Cancer Pain Questionnaire (BCPQ). Baseline pain sensitivity test and psychologic evaluation will be done before operation.
Breast Cancer|Mastectomy|Pain, Chronic|Pain, Post Operative
PROCEDURE: Opioid-free anesthesia|PROCEDURE: Conventional opioid-based anesthesia
Presence of chronic breast pain at 1 year after mastectomy, Presence of chronic pain will be assessed by Breast Cancer Pain Questionnaire (BCPQ). Zero score means absence of persisting breast-related pain. The minimum and maximum values of pain scale are 0 and 11, respectively. High score means worse outcome., 1 year after mastectomy
Quality of life, Presence of anxiety and depression symptoms will be assessed by HADS (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale) questionnaire. The range of each symptoms scale is between 0 and 21. A scale of 0-7 is defined as normal, a scale of 8-10 is defined as borderline, and a scale of 11-21 is defined as abnormal. High score means worse outcome., 1 year after mastectomy|Pain Sensitivity, The type of pain will be assessed by painDetect Questionnaire (PDQ). The PDQ comprises 12 items. The first three assess current pain, strongest pain during the past 4 weeks, and average pain during the past 4 weeks on a 0-10 point numerical rating scale from "none" to "worst imaginable"., 1 year after mastectomy
Study population

1. All of patients will undergo mastectomy with or without immediate breast reconstruction.
2. 230 patients will be enrolled.

Intervention

1. OFA group will be sedated using dexmedetomidine and lidocaine.
2. Conventional opioid anesthesia group will be sedated using remifentanil.

Pain screening

1. Breast Cancer Pain Questionnaire (BCPQ)
2. Pain-detect, HADS, EQ-5D, PHQ-15 (somatic symptom), PCS (pain catastrophizing), BFI (big five inventory), HAM-A\&D, Pressure algometry (Pain sensitivity), Quantitative sensory test (pinprick)