Safety, Efficacy, and Dosing of Stereotactic Radiosurgery for Hepato-cellular Carc/Colo-rectal Liver Metastases
The purpose of this study is to determine a tolerable dose of radiation delivered by the CyberKnife system in two groups of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
Liver Neoplasms|Colonic Neoplasms|Metastatic Cancer to Liver
RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery using the CyberKnife System.
Tolerability of Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) Based on Number of Cumulative Acute Toxicities Occurring Within 90 Days of Treatment and Related to SBRT., To determine a tolerable dose, cumulative acute toxicity was collected (defined as toxicity occurring within 90 days of treatment initiation). Adverse events were graded by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0. Tolerability was based on hepatic toxicity. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each adverse event (AE) term. Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL). Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., 90 days
Local Tumor Control to Doses of Radiation in Patients With Liver Cancer or Metastases to the Liver, 1 year local control defined as percentage of patients with freedom from local progression at a median follow-up time of 12.7 months. Progressive disease is defined as increase by \>= 50% of product of the two perpendicular diameters of an irradiated lesion., 12.7 months|Percentage of Local Response to Doses of Radiation in Patients With Liver Cancer or Metastases to the Liver, Complete response (CR) is defined as disappearance of the target lesion, partial response (PR) as regression of measureable disease, progressive disease (PD) as increase by \>= 50% in product of the two perpendicular diameters of an irradiated lesion, and stable disease (SD) as all others not meeting criteria for CR, PR, or PD., 6 months|Overall Survival of Patients With Liver Cancer or Metastases to the Liver, Overall survival is defined as percentage of patients remaining alive from start of study treatment to 1 year., 1 year
The CyberKnife system has been cleared by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat lesions, tumors and conditions anywhere in the body when radiation treatment is indicated. In order to treat tumors during the respiratory cycle (vs. increasing the margin of treatment around the tumor to compensate for movement or requiring the patient to breath hold during the delivery of each beam), the Synchrony™ option, a system option that enables dynamic radiosurgery during respiration, will be used. The purpose of this study is to determine a tolerable dose of radiation delivered by the CyberKnife in two groups of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).Group 1: Patients with HCC and Childs A cirrhosis, and patients with colorectal liver metastases. Group 2: Patients with Childs B cirrhosis. Patients will be irradiated with radiation doses using the CyberKnife system in 3-5 radiation fractions using guidance from fiducials placed by interventional radiology. Treatments will be delivered with standard CyberKnife procedures to account for respiratory motion and set up variations. The fiducial location will be the prime determinant of the delivery site and respiratory motion and fiducial markers will be placed via percutaneous approach by interventional radiology.