Analysis of P-Selectin Expression on Platelets of Blood From Lung Cancer Patients
Purpose:

Selectins are vascular cell adhesion molecules involved in adhesive interactions of leukocytes and platelets and endothelium within the blood circulation.

Plasma soluble P selectin (sP-selectin), is a one of member of selectin family, an adhesion molecule and component of the membrane of the platelet alpha granulate has been proposed as a one marker of platelet activation. In this study we evaluate of expression of P selectin on platelets of blood between serum samples from lung cancer and healthy individuals.
Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: A single 2 ml heparinised peripheral blood sample
Assessment of the concentration of P-selectin in 3 groups in lung cancer patients and compared to the healthy participants., Assessment of the concentration of P-selectin in 3 groups in lung cancer patients and compare the concentration of P-selectin depends on tumor volume.Comparison between 3 groups and in the end, compared to the healthy population, The study started from November 2015 and will be completed in May 2016. The end of the study will be July 2016.Data will be presented up to 1 year.
Material and Methods:

The investigators enrolled patients with lung cancer which divided on 3 group: 1- 23 patients with operating tumor; 2-ten patients with advanced and metastatic disease who received palliative RT (RT - radiotherapy); 3-five patients with advanced inoperable disease, who received radical RT or RT + CT (CT- chemotherapy).

In 1 group the specimens of blood we collected before surgery and 1-2 month after. In 2 group - before palliative treatment and in group 3 before radical treatment and one month after completion treatment. To compare to serum specimens from patients with lung cancer was obtained plasma from healthy volunteers.

Serum separation and Raman spectroscopy analysis:

A single 2 ml heparinised peripheral blood sample was centrifuges to get serum specimens. The Raman spectra (RS) of the solid residues from serum samples were measurement by placing 10µl of serum from the aliquots onto an aluminium substrate and allowed to dry for at least 30 min. The Raman system (Renishaw inVia Microscope integrated with Leica microscope) was calibrated with a silicon standard using the Raman peak at 520 cm-1. Multiple scans were conducted on the solid residue by moving the substrate on an X - Y stage. The wavelength of excitation was 785 nm and the laser beam was focused on the surface of the sample with a 50x objective. The radius on the beam was 3.0 µm and the laser power irradiation over the sample was 5mW. Each spectrum was taken with an exposure of 30s, 10 accumulation and collected in the region from 400 to 1540 cm-1.