Appetite and Exercise in Breast Cancer Survivors
The overall aim of this research is to investigate the acute effects of resistance exercise (REx) on the hormonal and behavioral indices of energy balance regulation in breast cancer survivors. This pilot study is designed to provide preliminary data to support future exercise interventions with more comprehensive energy balance profiling.
Overweight|Breast Cancer|Obesity
BEHAVIORAL: REx Condition First|BEHAVIORAL: Sedentary Control Condition First
Ghrelin area under the curve (AUC) in response to exercise or control, Ghrelin will be collected through serial IV collection. Each serum sample will be stored at -80C until analysis Radioimmunoassays will be used to determine serum total ghrelin (Milliipore). Total AUC will be calculated with the Trapezoid method, using all time points over the three hours following the control meal., 2 years
Peptide-YY (PYY) area under the curve (AUC) in response to exercise or control, PYY will be collected through serial IV collection. Each serum sample will be stored at -80C until analysis Radioimmunoassays will be used to determine PYY (Millipore). Total AUC will be calculated with the Trapezoid method58, using all time points over the three hours following the control meal., 2 years|Subjective ratings of hunger in response to exercise or control, Appetite Ratings will be completed using 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS) questions (hunger, fullness, and desire to eat) at time points described above. Total AUC will be calculated using the Trapezoid method., 2 years|Subjective ratings of food-related cravings in response to exercise or control, Subjects will rate 'food appeal', 'food pleasantness', and 'desire to eat' of validated hedonic and non-hedonic food items using the ImageRate software with 0-100mm VAS scales., 2 years|Subjective ratings of appeal/desire for hedonic foods in response to exercise or control, Subjects will rate 'food appeal', 'food pleasantness', and 'desire to eat' of validated hedonic and non-hedonic food items using the ImageRate software with 0-100mm VAS scales., 2 years|Subjective ratings of satiety in response to exercise or control, Appetite Ratings will be completed using 100 mm visual analogue scale (VAS) questions (hunger, fullness, and desire to eat) at time points described above. Total AUC will be calculated using the Trapezoid method., 2 years|Ad libitum absolute and relative energy intake (EI), Acute ad libitum EI will be measured during the buffet lunch via the weight and measure method by the dietary staff at the CTRC to measure energy and macronutrient intake following the REx and control conditions. The buffet lunch will consist of 15% more food than predicted requirements and the option to get more food as desired., 2 years|Free-living energy intake (EI) for three days following each study day, Acute ad libitum EI will be measured during the buffet lunch via the weight and measure method by the dietary staff at the CTRC to measure energy and macronutrient intake following the REx and control conditions. The buffet lunch will consist of 15% more food than predicted requirements and the option to get more food as desired., 2 years|Free-living physical activity for three days following each study day, Activity and sedentary behaviors will be measured with ActivPAL accelerometers for 3 days after each study visit, 2 years|Total step count for three days following each study day, Activity and sedentary behaviors will be measured with ActivPAL accelerometers for 3 days after each study visit, 2 years|Sedentary time for three days following each study day, Activity and sedentary behaviors will be measured with ActivPAL accelerometers for 3 days after each study visit, 2 years
Resting energy expenditure (REE), REE will be measured for 20-25 minutes after a period of 30 minutes of quiet rest using an indirect calorimeter with ventilated hood (Parvo Medics metabolic cart). This test measures oxygen consumed and carbon dioxide exhaled to calculate REE (in kilocalories/day) using the Weir formula., 2 years|Body composition (fat mass[FM]), Data on participant's FM will be collected using a full body dual X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA; Hologic Delphi-W, Hologic Inc., Bedford, MA). The scanner will be calibrated according to the manufacturer's guidelines. All participants will undergo a pregnancy test before body composition testing. Body composition variables will be expressed in absolute terms and controlling for height (e.g. FM index: FM \[kg\]/height \[m2\]), 2 years|Body composition (Fat-free mass [FFM]), Data on participant's FFM will be collected using a full body dual X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA; Hologic Delphi-W, Hologic Inc., Bedford, MA). The scanner will be calibrated according to the manufacturer's guidelines. All participants will undergo a pregnancy test before body composition testing. Body composition variables will be expressed in absolute terms and controlling for height (e.g. FFM will also be expressed in relation to FM (FM:FFM)., 2 years|Gonadal hormones (estradiol and progesterone), Additional blood for a single assessment of estradiol (Beckman Coulter) and progesterone (Beckman Coulter) will be collected at baseline during the first study visit to control for these hormones in the statistical analyses., 2 years
After screening, eligible and consented participants will complete baseline evaluations of REE, body composition, and subjective questionnaires to assess energy balance. Eligible and interested individuals will attend an exercise familiarization session in the two weeks before the initial study visit. Individuals will then be randomized to either sedentary control/REx or REx/sedentary control in a 1:1. A washout period of approximately 7-14 days will separate testing sessions.

A randomized cross-over short-term study design was chosen to assessment to profile appetite, energy intake, and physical activity in controlled and free-living settings while also reducing participant burden (as opposed to a long-term intervention). Participants will serve as their own controls, thereby circumventing inter-individual variation in physiology that may confound results. It is anticipated that responses to acute exercise will be amplified in chronic interventions and may therefore be used as a basis for generating hypotheses on the regulation of certain energy balance components. The study will end after the completion of 3 days of dietary intake recall and physical activity measurement for the last participant.