A Dose-finding Study of Dalotuzumab in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors (MK-0646-002)
The study determined the recommended Phase 2 loading and maintenance doses and dose schedules for administering dalotuzumab using dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) observed during the entire treatment period (Up to 18 months). The primary hypothesis of the study was that administration of dalotuzumab as an every other week infusion in participants with relapsed or refractory locally advanced or metastatic cancers associated with a high frequency of insulin-like growth factor receptor type 1(IGF-1R) overexpression will be generally safe and well tolerated to permit further study and achieve a constant clearance and a minimum trough concentration of 3 µg/mL.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: dalotuzumab
Steady-state Serum Concentration of Dalotuzumab at 336 Hours (C336) After the First Maintenance Dose, Blood samples were obtained for analysis of steady-state serum concentration of dalotuzumab at 336 hours (C336) after the first maintenance dose of dalotuzumab. The C336 of dalotuzumab after intravenous administration is presented., 2 weeks post first maintenance dose of study drug (3 weeks post loading dose of study drug)|Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Dose- Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) were assessed and graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). A DLT was defined as the occurrence of any of the following events, that were judged by the study investigator, to be related to the study medication: Grade 4 neutropenia; Grade 3 neutropenia with fever \>38.5 degrees Celsius; Grade 4 thrombocytopenia; Grade 3 or Grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity (except alopecia and inadequately treated diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting, and hyperglycemia lasting less than 5 days; and Grade 3 or greater hyperglycemia lasting for more than 5 days in spite of optimal medical management., The entire treatment period (Up to 18 months)
Number of Participants Who Experienced a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), Complete Response (disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters) using Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Tumor response was assessed prior to first dose and every 8 weeks beginning pre-dose of Week 9 for up to 18 months. The best response out of all measurements for each participant was used for determining CR and PR., Up to 18 months post first dose of study drug|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum Insulin-like Growth Factor Receptor Type 1 (IGF-1R) Protein Level at Week 1, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 1|Number of Participants With a Positive Human-anti-humanized-antibody (HAHA) Titer, The formation of HAHAs may block efficacy by prematurely clearing dalotuzumab and limit the possibility of future dalotuzumab therapy. Blood samples for the measurement of serum levels of HAHAs were obtained prior to treatment with dalotuzumab, and pre-dose Week 3, Week 5, pre-dose every 8 subsequent weeks, and end of treatment (post-study: 4 weeks after last dose of study drug). Positive HAHA status for a participant is defined as testing positive on both the screening and immunodepletion assays at one or more visits., Prior to second and subsequent doses of study drug (Up to 1 year post-first dose)|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 5, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 5|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 9, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 9|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 13, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 13|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 17, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 17|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 21, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 21|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 25, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 25|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 29, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 29|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 33, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 33|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 37, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 37|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 41, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 41|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 45, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 45|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 49, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 49|Percent Change From Baseline in Serum IGF-1R Protein Level at Week 53, IGF-1R expression was measured in pre- and post-dose biopsy samples using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) assays. Results were expressed as a percent change from baseline in IG1-FR expression for participants pooled across all dose arms in the study and calculated by study week. A post-dose decrease in IGF-1R expression was an indication of target engagement by dalotuzumab. A larger percent change correlated with a greater target engagement., Baseline and Week 53
The study consisted of 3 parts. In Part 1 the loading dose was escalated while the maintenance dose was kept constant. In Part 2 the loading dose was kept constant while the maintenance dose was escalated. In Part 3 the recommended phase 2 loading and maintenance doses and schedule were administered to an expanded cohort to explore safety and efficacy of dalotuzumab.