Pertuzumab in Platinum-Resistant Low Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 3 (HER3) Messenger Ribonucleic Acid (mRNA) Epithelial Ovarian Cancer (PENELOPE)
This two-part, multicenter study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of pertuzumab in combination with standard chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-resistant epithelial ovarian cancer. In the non-randomized Part 1 safety run-in, participants will receive pertuzumab plus either topotecan or paclitaxel. In the randomized, double-blind Part 2 of the study, participants will receive either pertuzumab or placebo in combination with chemotherapy (topotecan, paclitaxel, or gemcitabine).
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine (Chemotherapy)|DRUG: Paclitaxel (Chemotherapy)|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Topotecan (Chemotherapy)
Part 1: Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE can be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormality laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product., Approximately 28 months (assessed at screening, baseline until 28 days after the last dose of study treatment)|Part 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by a Blinded Independent Review Committee (IRC) Including Malignant Bowel Obstruction (MBO), PFS (IRC-Assessed) was defined as the time from randomization into Part 2 of the trial until progressive disease (PD), MBO or death from any cause, whichever occurred first per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. PD could base on symptom deterioration or was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or the unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Approximately 44 months (assessed at screening and every 9 weeks from randomization until disease progression)
Part 1- Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the number of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) recorded from the start of treatment, until the end of treatment. BOR documented as confirmed CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 millimeter (mm). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Approximately 28 months (assessed at baseline and every 9 weeks from randomization until disease progression)|Part 2- Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the number of participants with BOR of CR or PR recorded from the start of treatment, until the end of treatment. BOR documented as confirmed CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 millimeter (mm). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Approximately 44 months (assessed at screening and every 9 weeks from randomization until disease progression)|Part 1: PFS Assessed by the Investigator, PFS as assessed by Investigator was defined as the time from first dose of pertuzumab or chemotherapy in Part 1 of the trial, until disease progression according to RECIST version 1.1, symptomatic deterioration or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. PD could base on symptom deterioration or was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or the unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Participants were censored at the last tumor assessment. Participants who have no tumor assessments after baseline and who were still alive will be censored at 1 day., Approximately 28 months (assessed at screening and every 9 weeks from randomization until disease progression)|Part 2: Progression-free Survival (PFS) Assessed by the Investigator, PFS (Investigator-assessed) is defined as the time from randomization, until disease progression according to RECIST v1.1 including death or MBO, whichever occurs first. Censoring is based on the last tumor assessment. If no tumor assessment post baseline, then censoring is at day 1. PD could base on symptom deterioration or was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or the unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Approximately 44 months (assessed at screening and every 9 weeks from randomization until disease progression)|Part 2: European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life (QoL) Questionnaire (QLQ) of Core 30 (C30) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30: included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status, symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting) and single items (dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhea and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'; 2 questions used 7-point scale \[1 'very poor' to 7 'Excellent'\]). Scores averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale; for functional scores, a higher score represents a better level of functioning. For symptom scores, a higher score represents a more severe level of symptoms. For the global health status scores, a higher score represents a better quality of life., Baseline (assessed at baseline and every 9 weeks from randomization until disease progression)|Part 2: Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE can be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormality laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product., Approximately 28 months (assessed at screening, baseline until 28 days after the last dose of study treatment)|Part 2: Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from randomization into Part 2 of the trial until death from any cause, Approximately 44 months (assessed at screening and every 9 weeks from randomization until disease progression)
This two-part, multicenter study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of pertuzumab in combination with standard chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-resistant epithelial ovarian cancer. In the non-randomized Part 1 safety run-in, participants will receive pertuzumab plus either topotecan or paclitaxel. In the randomized, double-blind Part 2 of the study, participants will receive either pertuzumab or placebo in combination with chemotherapy (topotecan, paclitaxel, or gemcitabine).