Atezolizumab and Varlilumab in Combination With Radiation Therapy for NSCLC
This phase I trial studies the side effects of atezolizumab, varlilumab, and radiation therapy in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced) and cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies such as atezolizumab may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies such as varlilumab may induce changes in body?s immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving atezolizumab, varlilumab, and radiation therapy may increase the amount of time the disease is not active or does not spread to another part of the body.
Refractory Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Atezolizumab 1200 MG in 20 ML Injection|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Varlilumab 3 mg/kg
Number of Participants With Grade 3 and 4 Toxicity, Will include grade 3 and 4 toxicities as defined by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days after the last dose of treatment, an average of a year
To Determine Objective Response Rate (ORR) of Therapy, Will be defined as the proportion of all subjected confirmed with an immune-related partial response (irPR) or immune-related complete response (irCR) divided by the number of assigned patients according to immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST)., From the start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence, assessed up to 1 year|To Estimate Clinical Benefit Rate of the Combination, Will be defined as the percentage of patients who achieve irCR, irPR, and immune-related stable disease., Up to 1 year|To Estimate Median Progression-free Survival (PFS) of the Combination, The log-rank test will be used to analyze PFS for comparison of treatment effects, i.e., the only covariate that will be used is the treatment arm. Distributions of PFS times will be estimated using the Kaplan- Meier product-limit method. The median PFS times with two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be estimated for each treatment group., From cycle 1, day 1 (each cycle is 21 days) of treatment until the criteria for disease progression is met as defined by irRECIST or death as a result of any cause, assessed up to 1 year|To Compare the Frequency of Immune-related Adverse Events (irAEs), irAE's are defined as any treatment-related AE that is inflammatory in nature, consistent with the mechanism of action of immunotherapy and generally medically manageable with topical and/or systemic immunosuppressants., Up to 30 days after the last dose of treatment
To Compare Pre- and Post-treatment Tumor PD-L1 Expression, Will be assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and will score the percentage of cells staining positively for PD-L1 incrementally. Scoring will be performed for the percentage of malignant tumor cells and for the percentage of nonmalignant inflammatory cell compartment that express PD-L1, separately., Baseline up to cycle 2, day 8 (each cycle is 21 days)|To Compare Pre- and Post-treatment Tumor Levels of Infiltrating CD3+, CD8+ T-cells, Will be assessed by IHC staining to identify tumor infiltrating lymphocytes at the tumor stroma interface., Baseline up to cycle 2, day 8 (each cycle is 21 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of combined therapy with atezolizumab and varlilumab in combination with radiation in adult patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have progressed on prior PD-1/PD-L1 therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine objective response rate (excluding the irradiated lesion) of therapy with atezolizumab and varlilumab in combination with radiation.

II. To estimate clinical benefit rate of the combination. III. To estimate median progression-free survival of the combination. IV. To compare the frequency of immune-related adverse events (irAEs).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive varlilumab intravenously (IV) oand atezolizumab IV every 3 weeks or each cycle. Between cycle 1 and 2, patients also receive stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months for up to 1 year.