A Phase II Trial of Neoadjuvant Treatment With PD-1 Inhibition (Nivolumab) With or Without IDO Inhibition (BMS-986205) and With or Without CTLA-4 Inhibition (Ipilimumab) in Resectable Stage III or IV Melanoma
This research study is studying different immunotherapy regimens as a possible treatment for stage III or IV resectable melanoma.
Melanoma Stage III|Melanoma Stage IV
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: BMS-986205|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Major Pathologic Response Rate, Complete Pathological response rate or near pathological complete response rate on each treatment arm, 2 years
Recurrence free survival, Time from treatment start to recurrence of melanoma, 2 years|Overall Survival Rate, Time from treatment start to death, 2 years|Changes In Infiltrating immune cells From Pre-Treatment To Time Of Excision, Changes in immune cells in the tumor micro environment including CD8 T-cells, 2 Years|Rates of adverse events and serious adverse events on the different treatment arms., Rates of different grade adverse events on each treatment arm, 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means the drug is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved OPDIVO® (nivolumab), YERVOY® (ipilimumab), and a combination of the two as treatment options for metastatic melanoma.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the combination of nivolumab and BMS-986205 as a treatment for any disease. This research study is looking for more information on the efficacy the combination of nivolumab and BMS-986205 in the treatment of melanoma.

Nivolumab, Ipilimumab, and BMS-986205 are types of immunotherapy. Immunotherapy works by encouraging the body's own immune system to attack the cancer cells. Nivolumab, Ipilimumab, and BMS-986205 work by stopping various molecules on cancer cells and body cells from working against the immune system's natural fight against cancer.

In this research study, the investigators are going to look at the following while the participants are receiving the study drug(s):

• The effectiveness (how well the drug works), safety, and tolerability of Nivolumab, BMS-986205 and Nivolumab, and Ipilimumab and Nivolumab in people with resectable stage III or IV melanoma