Preliminary Efficacy and Safety of INNO-206 Compared to Doxorubicin in Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This is a phase 2b, randomized, open-label, prospective, multicenter study comparing treatment with INNO 206 to doxorubicin in subjects with metastatic, locally advanced, or unresectable soft tissue sarcomas who have not been previously treated with any chemotherapy except potentially as adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and no evidence of tumor recurrence has occurred for at least 12 months.
Metastatic Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Locally Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Unresectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: INNO-206|DRUG: Doxorubicin
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the interval from the date of registration (ie, assignment of subject number) to the earliest date of documented evidence of recurrent or progressive disease, or the date of death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.

Progressive Disease is defined as: 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions from the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since the treatment started; the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of 1 new lesion is also considered progression., Approximately 24 months
Overall Survival, Overall survival was measured from the date of registration (ie, assignment of subject number) to the date of death due to any cause, or the date of last contact., Approximately 35 months|Progression-free Survival at 4 and 6 Months, Month 4 and 6|Objective Overall Response Rate (ORR), Objective Overall Response will be evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). Changes (i.e., improvements) in tumor measurements from baseline values will be assigned a status of CR or PR. Objective response measurements will comprise the sum of CR plus PR.

Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm).

Partial Response (PR): 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, from the baseline sum longest diameter., Approximately 24 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-related Toxicities (Adverse Events), Treatment will continue every 21 days until tumor progression is observed, 6 cycles of treatment are completed or unacceptable toxicity occurs., 30 days after last dose, up to 136 days (6 cycles of treatment plus 30 days)
One hundred five subjects will be enrolled and randomized 2:1 to receive either INNO-206 or doxorubicin. INNO-206 at a dosage of 350 mg/m2 (doxorubicin equivalents of 260 mg/m2) will be administered as a 30 minute IVI on Day 1 of each cycle to approximately 70 subjects. Doxorubicin (75 mg/m2) will be administered to approximately 35 subjects on Day 1 of each cycle. An individual cycle of therapy will be defined as a 3-week (21-day) period. Cycles will be repeated every 3 weeks. Multiple cycles may be administered until the subject is withdrawn from therapy or until a maximum of 6 cycles are administered. Overall response rates as well as individual categories of response (CR, PR, SD, and PD) will be determined using RECIST 1.1.\[28\] Time-to-event endpoints, including PFS and OS will be assessed using the Kaplan Meier method.\[30\] Evaluation of 4- and 6-month progression-free survival will also be performed. Toxicity (adverse events) will be recorded using the NCI CTCAE, version 4.0 (published 28 May 2009).