Development and Validation of the EFT for Adolescents With Cancer
There is increasing evidence of interventions shown to be effective to promote physical activity in adolescents with cancer. Nevertheless, adolescents with cancer become physically inactive after the end of the interventions. These interventions emphasized heavily on interventionists' role to assess adolescents' physical fitness and prescribe exercises. After the intervention, the adolescents were unable to follow the previous exercise prescriptions due to their changing medical conditions. To promote physical activity sustainably, it is vital to develop a patient-based assessment tool to allow adolescents with cancer to self-assess their own appropriate levels of physical activity that they could perform. However, a review of literature indicates a lack of such a tool.
Cancer
OTHER: Testing of the EFT
The EFT scores, Subjects will be asked to mark their responses for the EFT items in the second draft just before their scheduled oncologist routine visit. The scale ranges from 1 to 4. Higher scores indicate that the subjects are fit for a higher level of physical activity., Just before their scheduled oncologist routine visit
Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for pain, Subjects will be asked to mark their pain level on the NRS according to their experience just before their scheduled oncologist routine visit. The scale ranges from 0 to 10. Higher scores represent a higher level of pain., Just before their scheduled oncologist routine visit|The oncologists' rating for physical activity, The oncologists will rate the subject with the most appropriate intensity level of physical activity on a 4-point scale. The scale ranges from 1 to 4. Higher scores indicate that the subjects are fit for a higher level of physical activity., Just before their scheduled oncologist routine visit
A cross-sectional study design will be used. A convenience sample of 400 adolescents who (1) are aged 13-18; (2) are diagnosed with cancer; (3) can communicate in Cantonese and read Chinese will be recruited in Hong Kong Children's Hospital. The outcome measures will include demographic characteristics, pain scores, cardiopulmonary function measurements, EFT scores and ratings of the oncologist for the fitness of subjects for physical activity.