Prolonged Overnight Fasting And/or Exercise on Fatigue and Other Patient Reported Outcomes in Women with Hormone Receptor Positive Advanced Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to test if four different programs (prolonged overnighting fasting alone, exercise alone, a combination of prolonged overnight fasting and exercise, or general health education sessions alone) can reduce fatigue in women with advanced or metastatic breast cancer who are receiving a medication called a cyclin-dependent kinases-4 and 6 (CDK4/6) inhibitor.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Advanced Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Prolonged Overnight Fasting|BEHAVIORAL: Moderate-Intensity Exercise|BEHAVIORAL: General Health Education Sessions
Change in Cancer-Related Fatigue as Measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 Scores, Change in self-reported cancer-related fatigue as measured by participant scores on the European Organisation For Research And Treatment Of Cancer (EORTC) core quality of life questionnaire (QLQ) (EORTC QLQ-C30). The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a self-administered, 30-item questionnaire used to measure cancer patients' health-related quality of life. The EORTC QLQ-C30 uses for the questions 1 to 28 a 4-point scale. The scale scores from 1 to 4: 1 ("Not at all"), 2 ("A little"), 3 ("Quite a bit") and 4 ("Very much"). For the raw score, less points are considered to have a better outcome.

For the questions 29 and 30, the EORTC-QLQ-30 uses a 7-points scale. The scale scores from 1 to 7: 1 ("Very poor") to 7 ("Excellent"). More points are considered to have a better outcome., Baseline, 12 weeks
Change in Sleep Quality as Measured by Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) Scores, Change in sleep quality among participants across study arms as measured by scores on the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). The PSQI is a self-administered questionnaire for evaluating subjective sleep quality. PSQI global scores range from 0 to 21, with higher scores indicating worse sleep quality., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months|Change in Incidence of Toxicity as Measured by PRO-CTCAE Scores, Change in incidence of toxicity among study participants across all study arms as measured by scores on the Patient-Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) questionnaire. The PRO-CTCAE was developed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to assess symptomatic adverse events (AEs) in adult patients receiving cancer therapy. The PRO-CTCAE is a self-administered questionnaire. The investigators will measure incidence of mouth/throat sores, taste changes, decreased appetite, nausea, vomiting, heartburn, constipation, diarrhea, abdominal pain, shortness of breath, neuropathy, concentration, memory, pain, insomnia, hot flashes, joint pain, and fatigue., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months|Change in Levels of Psychological Distress as Measured by Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-4) Scores, Change in patient-reported outcomes among participants across study arms as measured by scores on the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-4). The PHQ-4 is a self-administered, 4-item valid screening instrument for detecting psychological distress due to anxiety and/or depression in participants. Scores range from 0 to 12, with higher scores indicating greater psychological distress., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months|Change in Quality of Life as Measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 Scores, Change in physical function and quality of life among study participants across all study arms will be measured by scores on the European Organisation For Research And Treatment Of Cancer (EORTC) core quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a self-administered, 30-item questionnaire used to measure cancer patients' health-related quality of life. The EORTC QLQ-C30 uses for the questions 1 to 28 a 4-point scale. The scale scores from 1 to 4: 1 ("Not at all"), 2 ("A little"), 3 ("Quite a bit") and 4 ("Very much"). For the raw score, less points are considered to have a better outcome.

For the questions 29 and 30, the EORTC-QLQ-30 uses a 7-points scale. The scale scores from 1 to 7: 1 ("Very poor") to 7 ("Excellent"). More points are considered to have a better outcome., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months|Change in Physical Function as Measured by Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) Test, Change in physical function among participants across study arms as assessed by the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB). The SPPB is assessment tool for evaluation of lower extremity functioning, and will be administered at designated study timepoints over a period of 12 months. The SPPB score ranges from 1 to 12, with higher scores indicating better physical performance., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months|Change in Body Composition measured in Hounsfield using CT Scan, Body composition analysis is defined as the quantification of skeletal muscle versus subcutaneous, visceral, and intermuscular adipose tissue, measured using Hounsfield units based on attenuation and anatomic information. A computerized tomography (CT) scan will be used to obtain this measure., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months|Change in Body Composition as measured in Hounsfield using PET Scan, Body composition analysis is defined as the quantification of skeletal muscle versus subcutaneous, visceral, and intermuscular adipose tissue, measured using Hounsfield units based on attenuation and anatomic information. A positron emission tomography (PET) will be used to obtain this measure., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months|Change in Levels of Interleukin-6 (IL-6), Change in levels of Interleukin-6 (IL-6) among participants across study arms will be measured in picograms per milliliter (pg/ml) via analyses of blood samples collected at designated study timepoints over a period of 12 months., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months and 12 months|Change in Levels of Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) levels, Change in levels of Tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) among participants across study arms will be measured in picograms per milliliter (pg/ml) via analyses of blood samples collected at designated study timepoints over a period of 12 months., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months and 12 months|Change in Levels of C-reactive protein (CRP), Change in levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) among participants across study arms will be measured in milligrams per liter (mg/L) via analyses of blood samples collected at designated study timepoints over a period of 12 months., Baseline, 12 weeks, 6 months and 12 months
The purpose of this study is to test if four different programs (prolonged overnighting fasting alone, exercise alone, a combination of prolonged overnight fasting and exercise, or general health education sessions alone) can reduce fatigue in women with advanced or metastatic breast cancer who are receiving a medication called a cyclin-dependent kinases-4 and 6 (CDK4/6) inhibitor.