The Addictive Diagnostic Value of Apparent Diffusion Coefficients to bpMRI in the Diagnosis of Prostate Cancer
The goal of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic value of different ADC values (incuding ADCmin, ADCmean, ADCratio and ADCrange) of bpMRI in patients with PI-RADS 3-5. The main aim is to evaluate whether different ADC values improve the diagnosis of clinically significant prostate cancer (Gleasonscore≥3+4, ISUP grade ≥2) and any-grade prostate cancer (Gleasonscore≥3+3, ISUP grade ≥1).
Prostate Cancer
Evaluate whether ADC values can improve the diagnostic capacity of bpMRI for clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa) (Gleason score ≥ 3+4, ISUP grade ≥ 2) in patients with PI-RADS 3-5., csPCa means Gleason score ≥ 3+4， ISUP grade ≥ 2. Evaluation indexes: ROC curves and AUC value (95%CI) , Sensetivity, Specificity, Positive predictive value and negative predictive value. The odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals in logistic analysis., through study completion, an average of 1 month
Evaluate whether ADC values can improve the diagnostic capacity of bpMRI for any-grade prostate cancer (PCa) (Gleason score ≥ 3+3, ISUP grade ≥ 1) in patients with PI-RADS 3-5., agPCa means Gleason score ≥ 3+3， ISUP grade ≥ 1. Evaluation indexes: ROC curves and AUC value (95%CI) , Sensetivity, Specificity, Positive predictive value and negative predictive value. The odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals in logistic analysis., through study completion, an average of 1 month|Evaluate the diagnostic capacity of different PI-RADS scores combined with different ADC cut off values for csPCa, ROC curves and AUC value (95%CI), Sensetivity, Specificity, Positive predictive value and negative predictive value., through study completion, an average of 1 month|Compare the diagnostic value of different ADC values for csPCa in patients with 3-5 points of PI-RADS., ROC curves and AUC value (95%CI), Sensetivity, Specificity, Positive predictive value and negative predictive value., through study completion, an average of 1 month
The study is conducted with suspected prostate cancer. Patients with PI-RADS scores of 3-5 after completing prostate bpMRI chose to undergo prostate biopsy. Before patients undergo prostate biopsy, researchers will collecte information on age, BMI, tPSA, f/PSA, PV, PSAD, ADCmean, ADCmin, ADCmax, ADCnormal, maximum lesion diameter, location of major lesions, and so on. For prostate biopsy, systematic prostate biopsy ± bpMRI cognitive fusion targeted prostate biopsy will be completed under the conditions permitted by physical condition, and Gleason score will be clearly given by pathologists if the final diagnosis is prostate cancer. In this study, the pathological result is regarded as the gold standard. ROC curve, area under curve, sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, positive likelihood ratio, negative likelihood ratio and other indicators of diagnostic test were calculated. Relevant conclusions are finally drawn by comparing the diagnostic capacity of different ADC values for prostate cancer. Meanwhile, binary logistic regression analysis will also conduct the Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be recorded.