Phase I Trial of PACE for Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This trial is being conducted to determine the feasibility and recommended dose of the combination of four drugs (prednisone, abiraterone, cabazitaxel and enzalutamide (PACE) as first-line therapy for metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).
Metastatic Prostate Cancer
DRUG: PACE with Cabazitaxel (15 mg/m2)|DRUG: PACE with Cabazitaxel (20 mg/m2)
Maximum tolerated dose of PACE as first-line therapy, The maximum tolerated dose is when 6 patients are treated at a dose level with less than two patients demonstrating dose limiting toxicities. Dose limiting toxicities are defined as any grade greater than or equal to grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity (except greater than or equal to grade 2 neurotoxicity), or greater than or equal to grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia lasting longer than or equal to 7 days. Toxicities will be assessed according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03., Baseline up to 2 years
Prostate specific antigen (PSA), PSA with a greater than or equal to 30% result within 12 weeks from baseline or the previous result and maximum declines at any time during the study progression. PSA will be tested at least every 3 weeks., Baseline up to 2 years|Radiographic progression-free survival with PACE, Radiographic examination is performed every 12 weeks to determine if there is disease progression., Baseline up to 2 years|Progression-free survival with PACE, Progression-free survival is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever comes first., Baseline up to 2 years|Objective response rate of measurable disease, Response will be evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1). Changes in only the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions are used in the RECIST criteria. Target lesions should be selected based on size (lesions with the longest diameter) and their suitability for accurate repeated measurements. A sum of the longest diameter (LD) for all target lesions will be calculated and reported as the baseline sum LD, which will be used to characterize the objective tumor response., Baseline up to 2 years|Pain response, The Patient Pain Index (0-5 scale) is used to measure pain per cycle. A decline of greater than or equal to 2 is defined as pain response., Baseline up to 2 years
Multiple agents have been shown to improve survival in patients with mCRPC by up to five months. The combination of prednisone, abiraterone, cabazitaxel and enzalutamide may be anticipated to be feasible therapy with minimal or no adverse drug interactions. This is a phase I trial to study the feasibility of the proposed therapy.

Patients will undergo a combination of oral daily drug intake at varying doses over a period of three weeks. Monitoring including blood collection for laboratory testing will be done on Day 1 of each three-week cycle with additional monitoring during the first cycle. Imaging and correlative studies will be done every 12 weeks. Therapy will continue until disease progression or severe toxicities.