Crenolanib in Combination With Sorafenib in Patients With Refractory or Relapsed Hematologic Malignancies
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

This is a pilot study to characterize the toxicity profile, to determine the maximum tolerated dose of the combination of crenolanib and sorafenib, and to determine the feasibility of administering these drugs in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies, including acute myeloid leukemia (AML), AML with prior myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and myeloperoxidase (MPO)-positive mixed phenotype acute leukemia with FLT3-internal tandem duplication (ITD) and tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) mutations.

The study will include two phases:

* The dose-escalation phase will characterize the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of crenolanib when given in combination with sorafenib.
* The dose-expansion cohort will further assess the safety and explore the efficacy of this combination.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Crenolanib|DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: methotrexate, hydrocortisone and cytarabine with leucovorin
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Any participant who experiences DLT at any time during cycle 1 of protocol therapy is considered evaluable for toxicity. Participants without DLT and can be followed for 28 days are also considered evaluable for toxicity. Participants who are not evaluable for toxicity (such as those removed early from therapy to start alternate therapy) at a given dose level will be replaced., Through Day 28 of Course 1|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The MTD is empirically defined as the highest dose level at which six participants have been treated with at most one participant experiencing a DLT and the next higher dose has been determined to be too toxic. If the lowest dose level studied is too toxic or the highest dose level studied is considered safe, the MTD will not have been considered estimated., Through Day 28 of Course 1
Each course of therapy will be 28 days (±5 days), unless disease progression is seen while on the combination of crenolanib with sorafenib. Patients may receive subsequent courses (up to a total of 365 days) if there is no disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

In Day 1 of Course 1, crenolanib is given once in the morning followed by characterization of the pharmacokinetic profile over the following 24-hour period. Starting with day 2 of Course 1, crenolanib will be given 3 times per day through day 28. On Days 8 to 28 of Course 1, sorafenib will be given once per day. Inter-patient dose escalation or de-escalation of crenolanib will be performed based on tolerability and toxicity.

Response will be assessed on days 8 and at end of course. If disease progresses prior to day 8, then sorafenib can be given before day 8.

In subsequent courses (up to 365 days), crenolanib and sorafenib are given on days 1 through 28. The treating physician may increase or decrease the sorafenib dose and frequency of administration per the trial's dosing table on the basis of effects and tolerability. If necessary, the crenolanib dose can be decreased per protocol.

Maintenance therapy must start no sooner than 30 days and no later than 120 days after hematopoietic stem cell therapy (HSCT). Single agent crenolanib will start at the last dose tolerated prior to HSCT. Crenolanib maintenance can be given for up to 365 days and additional therapy can be provided after discussion after discussion with the PI, in patients who continue to benefit after 1 year.