Computer-assisted Detection of Colonic Polyps
Screening colonoscopy is considered the gold standard for adenoma detection in the colon. However, it has been shown that a considerable number of polyps can be missed during screening colonoscopy. Until now the endoscopist himself is responsible for the detection of adenomatous polyps. No automatic tools are available supporting the colonoscopist to detect lesions. Recently, a computer program was developed that can be used to recognize and extract suspicious structure from colonoscopy video sequences. The program was built to automatically detected colonic polyps and to highlight the polyps by colour marking. The program was now refined so that the respective structures can be highlighted during real time colonoscopy. The aim of this feasibility study is to test whether the software is applicable during real time colonoscopy.
Colon Adenoma
DEVICE: Automatic polyp detection software
Polyp detection, After obtaining the histopathological diagnosis of resected polyps (approximately 3 days - 2 weeks) it can be determined whether the resected specimen contained polyp histology or not., up to 2 weeks (participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay or outpatient treatment, an expected average of 2 weeks)
Screening colonoscopy is considered the gold standard for adenoma detection in the colon. However, it has been shown that a considerable number of polyps can be missed during screening colonoscopy. Until now the endoscopist himself is responsible for the detection of adenomatous polyps. No automatic tools are available supporting the colonoscopist to detect lesions. Recently, a computer program was developed that can be used to recognize and extract suspicious structure from colonoscopy video sequences. The program was built to automatically detected colonic polyps and to highlight the polyps by colour marking. The program was now refined so that the respective structures can be highlighted during real time colonoscopy. The aim of this feasibility study is to test whether the software is applicable during real time colonoscopy.