Engage Psychosocial Intervention for Cancer Symptoms
The goal of this clinical trial is to test the efficacy a new psychosocial symptom management intervention called ENGAGE for patients with Stage IV breast, prostate, lung, or colorectal cancer. Participants will be randomized to ENGAGE or a Supportive Care intervention. Patient-reported outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 2 months, and 4 months.
Advanced Breast Cancer|Advanced Prostate Cancer|Advanced Lung Cancer|Advanced Colorectal Carcinoma|Advanced Colorectal Adenocarcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: ENGAGE|BEHAVIORAL: Supportive Care
MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) Interference with Daily Living Scale, This measure assesses the degree to which, over the past 7 days, symptoms of pain, fatigue, and/or distress have interfered with patients' general activity, mood, work (including work around the house), relations with other people, walking, and enjoyment of life. Items are scored from 0 = "Did not interfere" to 10 = "Interfered completely," and averaged for a composite score., 2 months
MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) Interference with Daily Living Scale, This measure assesses the degree to which, over the past 7 days, symptoms of pain, fatigue, and/or distress have interfered with patients' general activity, mood, work (including work around the house), relations with other people, walking, and enjoyment of life. Items are scored from 0 = "Did not interfere" to 10 = "Interfered completely," and averaged for a composite score., 4 months|MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) Symptom Severity Scale, This measure assesses the severity of pain, fatigue, and distress at their worst over the past 7 days. Items are scored from 0 = "not present" to 10 = "as bad as you can imagine". Each item is interpreted individually, with higher scores reflecting worse symptom severity., 2 months and 4 months|Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Self-Efficacy for Managing Symptoms, This measure assesses patients' level of confidence to manage or control their symptoms, manage their symptoms in different settings, and to keep symptoms from interfering with work, relationships, or personal care. Items are scored from 1 = "I am not confident at all" to 5 = "I am very confident." Items are summed and converted to T-scores, with higher scores indicating better self-efficacy., 2 months and 4 months|Openness to Experience subscale of the Comprehensive Assessment of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (CompACT), This subscale assesses patients' openness to experience difficult thoughts, emotions, and sensations (i.e., psychological acceptance). Items are scored from 0 = "strongly disagree" to 6 = "strongly agree," with higher scores indicating more acceptance. Items are averaged for a composite score., 2 months and 4 months|Behavioral Awareness subscale of the Comprehensive Assessment of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (CompACT), This subscale assesses patients' level of present moment awareness (i.e., mindfulness). Items are scored from 0 = "strongly disagree" to 6 = "strongly agree," with higher scores indicating more mindfulness. items are averaged for a composite score., 2 months and 4 months|Valued Action subscale of the Comprehensive Assessment of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (CompACT), This subscale assesses patients' degree of values identification and willingness to take actions that align with their personal values. Items are scored from 0 = "strongly disagree" to 6 = "strongly agree," with higher scores indicating more values identification and engagement. Items are averaged for a composite score., 2 months and 4 months|Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), This pain severity measure assesses pain at its worst, least, average, and now. Response options range from 0 = "no pain" to 10 = "pain as bad as you can imagine". items are averaged for a composite score., 2 months and 4 months|Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), This fatigue severity measure assesses fatigue over the last 7 days from 0 = "no fatigue" to 10 = "as bad as you can imagine" at its usual, worst, and right now. Items are averaged for a composite score., 2 months and 4 months|Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Anxiety-Short Form, This anxiety symptom measure assesses fear, worry, uneasiness, nervousness, and tension. Response options range from 1 = "never" to 5 = "always." Items are summed and converted to T-scores, with higher scores indicating worse anxiety symptoms., 2 months and 4 months|Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Depression-Short Form, This depressive symptoms measure assesses worthlessness, helplessness, hopelessness, depressed mood, failure, and sadness. Response options range from 1 = "never" to 5 = "always." Items are summed and converted to T-scores, with higher scores indicating worse depressive symptoms., 2 months and 4 months|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G), This quality of life measure is composed of 4 subscales: physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being. Items are rated on a 0 = "not at all" to 4 = "very much" scale and summed for subscale scores and an overall quality of life score., 2 months and 4 months|Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Spiritual Well-Being Scale (FACIT-Sp), This measure includes an overall spiritual well-being score and three subscales: 1) meaning (i.e., reason for living, sense of meaning and purpose); 2) peace (i.e., feeling peaceful, sense of harmony within oneself); and 3) faith (i.e., finding strength and comfort in faith or spiritual beliefs). Response options range from 0 = "not at all" to 4 = "very much"; two items are reverse coded. Higher scores indicate greater spiritual well-being., 2 months and 4 months
Pain, fatigue, and distress are highly prevalent, co-occurring, and interfering symptoms in patients with advanced cancer. This trial will test a brief telehealth delivered psychosocial intervention called ENGAGE. ENGAGE aims to help patients decrease symptom interference and improve their quality of life. Patients with Stage IV cancer (breast, prostate, lung, or colorectal) and moderate-to-severe symptom interference will be randomized to ENGAGE or Supportive Care. Patient-reported outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 2 months, and 4 months. Aim 1 is to determine ENGAGE's efficacy for reducing symptom interference (primary outcome) at 2 months (primary endpoint). Aim 2 is to determine ENGAGE's efficacy for improving secondary outcomes at 2 months. Aim 3 is to test the maintenance of ENGAGE's effects on primary and secondary outcomes at 4 months. An exploratory aim seeks insights for future implementation efforts using mixed-methods data collection from patients, oncology providers, and clinic leaders.