A Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Plus Carboplatin and Paclitaxel as First-line Treatment of Recurrent/Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (MK-3475-B10/KEYNOTE B10)
The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab combined with carboplatin and paclitaxel as first-line treatment in participants with recurrent/metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (R/M HNSCC). No statistical hypothesis will be tested in this study.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Update and Clarification 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) which was adjusted for this study to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. The percentage of participants who experienced a CR or PR as assessed by blinded independent central review based on RECIST 1.1 was presented., Up to ~25 months
Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrated a confirmed Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or confirmed Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters) per RECIST 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. RECIST 1.1 was adjusted for this study to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. The DOR as assessed by blinded independent central review based on RECIST 1.1 was presented., Up to ~25 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from first dose of study treatment to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. RECIST 1.1 was been adjusted for this study to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review based on RECIST 1.1 was from product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data., Up to ~25 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from first dose of study treatment to death due to any cause. PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review based on RECIST 1.1 was from product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) method for censored data., Up to ~25 months|Percentage of Participants Who Experience an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The percentage of participants who experienced an AE was reported., Up to ~25 months|Percentage of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The percentage of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE was reported., Up to ~25 months
The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab combined with carboplatin and paclitaxel as first-line treatment in participants with recurrent/metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (R/M HNSCC). No statistical hypothesis will be tested in this study.