Phase I/II NabPaclitaxel, Paclitaxel&Carboplatin w RTX Followed by Consolidation in Patients w Favorable Prognosis Inoperable Stage IIIA/B NSCLC
The investigators propose this phase I/II study to use weekly Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane) and carboplatin with concurrent radiation in local-regionally advanced lung cancer. There are no published human studies combining Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane) with radiation. The investigators will first confirm the tolerated dose (TD) of concurrent Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane) at 50mg/m2, and then will begin enrolling patients into the phase II component using either Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane) at the TD with carboplatin concurrent with daily radiation or paclitaxel with carboplatin concurrent with daily radiation.
STAGE IIIA/B NSCLC / INOPERABLE LUNG CANCER
DRUG: NAB-PACLITAXEL|DRUG: PACLITAXEL|DRUG: NAB-PACLITAXEL
2-year Overall Survival (Phase II), 2-year overall survival, as measured (by Kaplan-Meir method) as the percentage of patients who were randomized and received carboplatin/paclitaxel or carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel with radiation therapy survived for 2 years., 2 years
The Feasibility of Concurrent Carboplatin/Nab-Paclitaxel and Radiation Therapy, The feasibility as measured by the number of participants who had grade 3 or higher radiation related esophagitis or pulmonary toxicity or chemotherapy related grade 4 hematological or other non-hematological toxicities occurring within 60 days of the start of treatment; compliance us defined as the completion of the treatment regimen with no more than minor variations., 60 days of the start of treatment|Overall Response Rate for the Patients Receiving Carboplatin/ Paclitaxel or Carboplatin/ Nab-paclitaxel With Radiation Therapy, The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST1.1) criteria, 1,6,12,18,24 month|Proportion of Participants With Progression-free Survival (Phase II), Proportion of participants with progression free survival at 2 years is computed as the percentage of participants between randomization and local or regional progression, distant metastases, death, or last known follow-up. Estimates of progression free survival will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meir method., 2 years|Median Overall Survival (Phase II), Median overall survival was based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., every 6 months up to 24 months (approx. 22 months)|EuroQol-5Dimension (EQ-5D) MUS Score at Baseline, EQ-5D is a two-part questionnaire. The first part of mean utility score (MUS) consists of five items addressing five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension can be graded on three levels: 1-no problems, 2- slight problems, and 3-moderate problems, 4-severe problems, 5-extreme problems.

Possible score ranges from 5-25 with higher scores indicating worse outcome.Both the five-item index score and the VAS score are transformed into a utility score between 0-"worst health state" and 1-"best health state.", Baseline|EuroQol-5Dimension (EQ-5D) MUS Score at End of Treatment, EQ-5D is a two-part questionnaire. The first part of mean utility score (MUS) consists of five items addressing five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension can be graded on three levels: 1-no problems, 2- slight problems, and 3-moderate problems, 4-severe problems, 5-extreme problems.

Possible score ranges from 5-25 with higher scores indicating worse outcome. Both the five-item index score and the VAS score are transformed into a utility score between 0-"worst health state" and 1-"best health state.", End of treatment (6 weeks)|EuroQol-5Dimension (EQ-5D) VAS Score at Baseline, The second part of the EQ-5D is a visual analogue scale (VAS) valuing current health state, measured on a 20-cm 10-point-interval scale.

Worst imaginable health state is scored as 0 at the bottom of the scale, and best imaginable health state is scored as 100 at the top.

Possible score ranges from 0-100 with higher scores indicating better outcome., Baseline|EuroQol-5Dimension (EQ-5D) VAS Score at End of Treatment, The second part of the EQ-5D is a visual analogue scale (VAS) valuing current health state, measured on a 20-cm 10-point-interval scale.

Worst imaginable health state is scored as 0 at the bottom of the scale, and best imaginable health state is scored as 100 at the top.

Possible score ranges from 0-100 with higher scores indicating better outcome., End of Treatment (6 weeks)|EuroQol-5Dimension (EQ-5D) VAS Score at 24 Month Follow up, The second part of the EQ-5D is a visual analogue scale (VAS) valuing current health state, measured on a 20-cm 10-point-interval scale.

Worst imaginable health state is scored as 0 at the bottom of the scale, and best imaginable health state is scored as 100 at the top.

Possible score ranges from 0-100 with higher scores indicating better outcome., 24 month follow up|EuroQol-5Dimension (EQ-5D) MUS Score at 24 Month, EQ-5D is a two-part questionnaire. The first part of mean utility score (MUS) consists of five items addressing five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension can be graded on three levels: 1-no problems, 2- slight problems, and 3-moderate problems, 4-severe problems, 5-extreme problems.

Possible score ranges from 5-25 with higher scores indicating worse outcome.Both the five-item index score and the VAS score are transformed into a utility score between 0-"worst health state" and 1-"best health state.", 24 month follow up
The investigators propose this phase I/II study to use weekly Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane) and carboplatin with concurrent radiation in local-regionally advanced lung cancer. There are no published human studies combining Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane) with radiation. The investigators will first confirm the tolerated dose (TD) of concurrent Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane) at 50mg/m2, and then will begin enrolling patients into the phase II component using either Nab-Paclitaxel (Abraxane) at the TD with carboplatin concurrent with daily radiation or paclitaxel with carboplatin concurrent with daily radiation.