Checkpoint Inhibition and Chemoradiotherapy as Bladder Sparing Treatment in UC
This is a single-armed, multicenter, non-blinded phase 2 study to assess efficacy of induction ipilimumab + nivolumab followed by chemoradiation to spare the bladder in urothelial bladder cancer.
Urothelial Carcinoma|Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Ipilimumab + nivolumab
Efficacy defined as bladder-intact event-free survival (BI-EFS), Events are defined as death by any cause, muscle-invasive, upper urinary tract, nodal or distant recurrence, cystectomy, or switch to cisplatin-based chemotherapy., From initiation of study drug until event, defined as described above, whichever comes first. Patients without an event are censored at time of last cystoscopy/last CT scan. Assessed at primary analysis and subsequently at a minimum of 3yrs follow-up.
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), RFS is defined as time from start of therapy until the following events: muscle-invasive bladder or upper urinary tract recurrence, locoregional or distant metastases, switch to cisplatin-based chemotherapy or death by any cause., From start of therapy until one of the events mentioned above, whichever comes first. RFS will be assessed at the primary analysis and subsequently at a minimum of 3 years follow-up for all patients|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time between the date of enrollment and the date of death., From date of enrollment until date of death. OS will be assessed at the primary analysis and subsequently at a minimum of 3 years follow-up for all patients.|Feasibility to proceed to chemoradiation (CRT), Percentage of patients able to proceed to CRT, From the initiation of the study drug untill the the start of CRT|Change in patient reported outcome regarding quality of life (QoL), QoL will be assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 and an unvalidated immunotherapy-related QoL questionnaire developed by and used in the Netherlands Cancer Institute. These will be provided to evaluate changes from baseline in QoL and evaluate long-term effects of immunotherapy on QoL using both multi-item scale and single-item scales. A graph showing the change from baseline to three timepoints will be reported: 56 ±7 days after treatment initiation and at 3, 6, 12,18 and 24 months after finalizing chemoradiotherapy., From screening until two years after finalizing chemoradiation|Patient reported outcome regarding bladder function, Questionnaires for bladder function (EORTC-QLQ-BLM30)will be provided, resulting in a score on a four point scale. A graph showing the change from baseline to six timepoints will be reported: 56 ±7 days after treatment initiation and at 3, 6, 12,18 and 24 months after finalizing chemoradiotherapy., From screening until two years after finalizing chemoradiation
Radiological tumor evaluation by mpMRI, Tumor evaluation by AI based radiological assessment of pre- and on-treatment mpMRI will be established to identify nonresponding patients. BI-EFS, RFS and OS will be compared for the binary outcome mpMRI response vs nonresponse., mpMRI assessments will be done at baseline and at 56 ±7 days after treatment initiation. BI-EFS, RFS and OS will be determined as mentioned above and collected at the moment of primary analysis.|Translational, BI-EFS, RFS and OS will be compared between patients with Tumor mutational burden (TMB) \>median vs \<median.

BI-EFS, RFS and OS will be compared between patients with PD-L1 high tumors versus patients with PD-L1 low tumors., TMB and PD-L1 will be determined on baseline tissue. BI-EFS, RFS and OS will be determined as mentioned above.
This is a phase 2 study in which fifty adult patients with cT2-4aN0-2 urothelial bladder cancer, who are amenable for chemoradiation, will be included. Lymph nodes should be amenable for inclusion into the radiation field.

Included patients will be treated with three cycles of checkpoint inhibition: ipilimumab 3mg/kg on day 1, ipilimumab 3 mg/kg plus nivolumab 1 mg/kg on day 22, and nivolumab 3 mg/kg on day 43.

Response of this induction therapy will be evaluated by cystoscopy, mpMRI and a CT scan.

Patients will then be treated by radiation to the bladder and involved nodes, in combination with mitomycine C (day 1, 12 mg/m2, maximum dose of 20 mg) and either daily capecitabin or intravenous 5-FU in week 1 and 4. Radiotherapy will be delivered using Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy delivering a dose of 50Gy to the whole bladder with a simultaneous tumor boost of 60Gy to the tumor bed.

The primary endpoint is efficacy, defined as bladder-intact event-free survival (BI-EFS). Events consist of death by any cause; muscle-invasive, upper urinary tract, nodal or distant recurrence, cystectomy, or switch to cisplatin-based chemotherapy.

The first evaluation after completion of chemoradiation will be after three months. Further follow-up visits will take place 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 months after completion of chemoradiation. During these visits, focused physical examination, cystoscopy and a CT chest-abdomen will be performed, combined with registration of treatment-related adverse events and a questionnaire for evaluating QoL, bladder function and long-term effects of immunotherapy on QoL.

Key secondary endpoints are overall survival (OS), recurrence-free survival (RFS), feasibility to proceed to chemoradiation, safety, QoL, and bladder function.