Trial to Evaluate Palifermin in the Reduction of Acute Graft Versus Host Disease in Patients With Hematologic Malignancies Undergoing Allogeneic Marrow/Peripheral Blood Progenitor Cell (PBPC) Transplantation
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of palifermin versus placebo in the reduction of severe acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) and severe oral mucositis.
Graft Versus Host Disease|Hematologic Malignancies
DRUG: Palifermin|DRUG: Placebo|OTHER: Conditioning Regimen|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic stem cell transplant|DRUG: Methotrexate
Number of Participants With Severe (Grade 3 and 4) Acute Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD), GVHD was graded using the modified Keystone Criteria weekly during the first 2 months after stem cell infusion, then every other week until Day 100.

Severity was determined clinically (based on physical exam and laboratory serum values) and from biopsies of affected organs whenever possible. The degree of GVHD in individual organs was scored by at least 2 assessors.

Grade 3 GVHD = total bilirubin 3.1 - 15.0 mg/dL or ≥ 1000 mL/day diarrhea or severe abdominal pain with/without ileus.

Grade 4 GVHD = skin involvement with bullous formation or total bilirubin \> 15.0 mg/dL., From transplant (Day 0) until Day 100
Number of Participants With Grade 2 to 4 Acute Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD), GVHD was graded using the modified Keystone Criteria weekly during the first 2 months after stem cell infusion, then every other week until Day 100.

Severity was determined clinically (based on physical exam and laboratory serum values) and from biopsies of affected organs whenever possible. The degree of GVHD in individual organs was scored by at least 2 assessors.

Grade 2 GVHD = \> 50% skin involvement or total bilirubin 2.0 - 3.0 mg/dL or 500 - 999 mL/day diarrhea, or persistent nausea with histologic evidence.

Grade 3 GVHD = total bilirubin 3.1 - 15.0 mg/dL or ≥ 1000 mL/day diarrhea or severe abdominal pain with/without ileus.

Grade 4 GVHD = skin involvement with bullous formation or total bilirubin \> 15.0 mg/dL., From transplant (Day 0) until Day 100|Number of Participants With Day 11 Methotrexate Graft Versus Host Disease Prophylaxis Administration, Low dose methotrexate is widely used in regimens to prophylax against acute GVHD. Methotrexate was administered on days 1, 3, 6 and 11 (toxicity allowing) at doses of 15, 10, 10 and 10 mg/m\^2, respectively., Day 11|Number of Participants With Severe (Grade 3 or 4) Oral Mucositis, Oral cavity assessments were performed by a trained assessor using the World Health Organization (WHO) oral toxicity scale. Daily oral mucositis assessments were performed:

* while participants were hospitalized, including the day of discharge (maximum until day 28);
* after discharge until the oral mucositis grade returns to a WHO grade ≤ 2.

The WHO oral toxicity criteria are: Grade 0 = None; Grade 1 = Soreness, erythema; Grade 2 = Erythema, ulcers, ability to eat solids; Grade 3 = Ulcers, requires liquid diet; Grade 4 = Alimentation not possible., From transplant (Day 0) until Day 100|Duration of Severe Oral Mucositis (WHO Grade 3 and 4), The duration of severe oral mucositis was calculated as the number of days from the onset of severe mucositis (first time a WHO grade of 3 or 4 was observed) to the last day when severe mucositis was observed. If oral mucositis assessments were recorded as missed visits immediately prior to or immediately after severe mucositis was recorded, the missed visits were considered to be severe oral mucositis., From transplant (Day 0) until Day 100|Number of Participants With Parenteral or Transdermal Opioid Analgesic Use, Includes nonprophylactic intravenous opioid analgesics (fentanyl, morphine, morphine sulphate, hydromorphone, meperidine) and transdermal opioid analgesics (fentanyl patch) for the indication of oral mucositis and dysphagia., From transplant (Day 0) until Day 100|Duration of Hospitalization, Duration of hospitalization was defined as the number of days a participant stayed in hospital (hospitalized) during the period starting from the day of the transplant (Day 0) to the 100th day following the transplant., From transplant (Day 0) until Day 100|Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Mouth and Throat Soreness Score, The modified Oral Mucositis Daily Questionnaire (OMDQ) is a self-reported tool that evaluates overall health, mouth and throat soreness (MTS) and activity limitations due to MTS.

The modified OMDQ was completed once daily beginning with the first day of study drug administration through day 28.

The area under the curve of mouth and throat soreness score was assessed from the question "How much mouth and throat soreness did you experience in the past 24 hours?" Participants answered on a scale from 0 (no soreness) to 4 (extreme soreness)., The first day of study drug administration through Day 28.
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of palifermin versus placebo in the reduction of severe acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) and severe oral mucositis.