Combination of Everolimus and 177Lu-DOTATATE in the Treatment of Grades 2 and 3 Refractory Meningioma: a Phase IIb Clinical Trial
Meningioma, the most common intracranial primary tumor of the central nervous system predominantly affects people in their fifties. Meningiomas are generally subdivided into two entities: a priori non-aggressive meningiomas (grade 1), and meningiomas at high risk of aggressive behavior (grade 2/atypical and 3/anaplastic). The current conventional treatments for meningioma are surgery and radiotherapy. When these treatments are no longer feasible, meningiomas are considered refractory irrespectively of grade, and in these rare entities, the therapeutic arsenal is reduced to the few treatments that have shown limited efficacy. Refractory, and particularly grades 2 and 3 meningiomas, have very poor prognoses with a progression-free survival at 6 months (PFS-6) of 26%. The European Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology group (RANO) recommends that in any new, grades 2 and 3 meningioma, therapy that achieves a PFS-6 \>30% in phase II trials be considered promising.

In Nuclear Medicine, Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) with 177Lu-DOTATATE, currently used on a compassionate basis in refractory meningioma, deploys an octreotide-like effect, and appears very promising, with preliminary PFS-6 of 94% and an overall survival at 12 months (OS-12) of 88% in grade 1 meningioma. However, its PFS-6 is reduced to 28% with an OS-12 of 65% in WHO grades 2 and 3 meningioma. Recently the non-radiolabeled octreotide and everolimus combination however achieved a PFS-6 of 55% and an OS-12 of 75% in a population of 90% WHO grades 2 and 3 meningioma.
Meningioma
DRUG: Everolimus
RANO criteria (Response assessment in neuro oncology criteria), Progression Free Survival (PFS) from the start of treatment according to the RANO criteria (Response assessment in neuro oncology criteria), 7 months
Overall Survival, OS-12. Overall Survival, defined as the time from the date of inclusion to the date of death from any cause, 12 months|Tumor growth rate, Tumor growth rate, defined as the product of the two largest diameters of the target lesion from the MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) at Month 3 or Month 6 compared to the diameters of the lesion at baseline., 6 months|Progression Free Survival, Dose delivered to the tumor (dosimetry) will be calculated on at least 2 skull scans with 177Lu-DOTATATE SPECT-CT (D1 and D7), after the first cycle of 177Lu-DOTATATE., 1 month|Number and types of grade 1, 2, 3 or 4 adverse events according to the CTCAE, Number and types of grade 1, 2, 3 or 4 adverse events according to the CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) classification per patient, from the start of treatment until 180 days after the end of the last treatment cycle., 180 days|Questionnaire, HRQoL (Measuring Health-related quality of life ), assessed using the EORTC (uropean Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer) QLQ-C30 (Quality of Life Control) questionnaire at inclusion (V1) and at 6 months (V7)., 6 moniths
Meningioma, the most common intracranial primary tumor of the central nervous system predominantly affects people in their fifties. Meningiomas are generally subdivided into two entities: a priori non-aggressive meningiomas (grade 1), and meningiomas at high risk of aggressive behavior (grade 2/atypical and 3/anaplastic). The current conventional treatments for meningioma are surgery and radiotherapy. When these treatments are no longer feasible, meningiomas are considered refractory irrespectively of grade, and in these rare entities, the therapeutic arsenal is reduced to the few treatments that have shown limited efficacy. Refractory, and particularly grades 2 and 3 meningiomas, have very poor prognoses with a progression-free survival at 6 months (PFS-6) of 26%. The European Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology group (RANO) recommends that in any new, grades 2 and 3 meningioma, therapy that achieves a PFS-6 \>30% in phase II trials be considered promising.

In Nuclear Medicine, Peptide Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) with 177Lu-DOTATATE, currently used on a compassionate basis in refractory meningioma, deploys an octreotide-like effect, and appears very promising, with preliminary PFS-6 of 94% and an overall survival at 12 months (OS-12) of 88% in grade 1 meningioma. However, its PFS-6 is reduced to 28% with an OS-12 of 65% in WHO grades 2 and 3 meningioma. Recently the non-radiolabeled octreotide and everolimus combination however achieved a PFS-6 of 55% and an OS-12 of 75% in a population of 90% WHO grades 2 and 3 meningioma.

Our research hypothesis is that 177Lu-DOTATATE PRRT, a vector targeting somatostatin type 2 receptor (octreotide type) with a high-energy β-emitting radioactive label, when combined with everolimus, an mTOR protein inhibitor with radiosensitizing properties, will potentiate the effects of the non-radiolabeled octreotide + everolimus combination and increase PFS-6 in refractory grades 2 and 3 meningioma patients.