Spectroscopic MRI-Guided Radiation Therapy Planning in Glioblastoma
This pilot clinical trial studies the side effects of spectroscopic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-guided radiation therapy and how well it works in treating patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma or gliosarcoma. Spectroscopic MRI can show doctors where the extent of tumor is in the brain beyond current clinical MRI scans by mapping areas of high tumor metabolism. Radiation therapy uses high energy beams to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Spectroscopic MRI-guided radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with glioblastoma or gliosarcoma.
Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma
RADIATION: Dose-Escalated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Spectroscopic Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Temozolomide
Feasibility as assessed by successful co-registration of sMRI-based treatment volumes with clinical images into the radiation treatment execution platform, Feasibility of this approach will be determined by whether treatment volumes based on sMRI can be co-registered with clinical images and transferred into the radiation treatment execution platform in a seamless manner, so that sMRI information can be efficiently applied to the patient treatment., Up to 2 years after completion of therapy|Incidence of adverse event assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, The safety of sMRI to guide dose-escalated RT will be confirmed by assessing toxicity potentially attributable to the RT., Up to 2 years after completion of therapy
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS actuarial curves will be assessed and compared to historical controls, and will particularly interested in comparing the 1-year PFS rate which, based on the control arm (receiving standard dose RT with TMZ) of recent GBM trials, is approximately 30% in historical cohorts., From the time of surgical resection to the time of either radiographic progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 1 year
Early evidence of GBM progression assessed by sMRI, Changes in sMRI parameters over time will be assessed to determine whether they will be able to predict development of recurrence., At 2 weeks after start of therapy|Neurocognitive performance: Hopkins Verbal Learning Test, Neurocognitive performance will be assessed by the Hopkins Verbal Learning Test - Revised., Up to 2 years after completion of therapy|Neurocognitive performance: Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Neurocognitive performance will be assessed by the Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT) from the Multilingual Aphasia Examination., Up to 2 years after completion of therapy|Overall survival (OS), The OS actuarial curve and 1-year OS rate will be assessed and compared to historical controls., From the time of surgical resection to the time of death, assessed up to 1 year|Quality of life (QOL): European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, QOL will be assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30/Brain Cancer Module-20., Up to 2 years after completion of therapy|Quality of life (QOL): MD Anderson, QOL will be assessed by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory Brain Tumor Module., Up to 2 years after completion of therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of using spectroscopic MRI (sMRI) to guide dose-escalated radiation therapy (RT) for newly-diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM)s.

II. To determine the safety of using sMRI to guide dose-escalated RT for newly-diagnosed GBMs.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether the progression free survival at 1 year with sMRI-guided, dose-escalated RT is improved for newly-diagnosed GBMs.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether sMRI-guided, dose-escalated RT increases the overall survival of patients with newly diagnosed GBMs.

II. To determine whether sMRI data obtained after initiation of therapy (at 2 weeks after RT/TMZ start and prior to cycle 1 and 5 of adjuvant temozolomide \[TMZ\]) will provide early evidence of GBM progression not seen on standard MRIs.

III. To determine whether performance on neurocognitive and quality-of-life (QOL) assessments in newly-diagnosed GBM patients treated with sMRI-guided, dose-escalated RT differ from historical controls.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo sMRI-guided radiation therapy daily for the first 5 days of every week (Monday - Friday) over 6 weeks. Patients also receive standard of care temozolomide orally (PO) daily during radiation therapy for up to 42 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years and then periodically.