Paclitaxel With or Without Cixutumumab as Second-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Esophageal Cancer or Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well paclitaxel with or without cixutumumab works in treating patients with esophageal cancer or gastroesophageal junction cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Cixutumumab may kill cancer cells by blocking the action of a protein needed for cancer cell growth. Giving paclitaxel with or without cixutumumab may kill more tumor cells.
Metastatic Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Esophageal Carcinoma|Recurrent Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Esophageal Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Cixutumumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization to progression or death without evidence of progression. For cases without documentation of progression, follow-up was censored at the date of last disease assessment without progression, unless death occurred within a short period of time (4 months) following the date last known progression-free, in which case the death was counted as an event, or in the case of death within 4 months of randomization in the absence of disease evaluation before that time. PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, with 90% confidence intervals calculated using Greenwood's formula, and compared by the log rank test., assessed every 3 months for 2 years after registration
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization until death (event), or censored at last date known alive. OS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, with 90% confidence intervals calculated using Greenwood's formula, and compared by the log rank test., assessed every 3 months for 2 years after registration|Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate is defined as number of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by all eligible patients. Responses are evaluated using the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. PR is defined as disappearance of target lesions or at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum diameters), and persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits., assessed every 8 weeks while on treatment and every 3 months after treatment for 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the progression-free survival of paclitaxel plus cixutumumab (IMC-A12) versus paclitaxel alone as second-line therapy in patients with metastatic esophagus or gastroesophageal (GE) junction cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall survival of paclitaxel plus cixutumumab (IMC-A12) versus paclitaxel alone in this patient population.

II. To evaluate the response rate of paclitaxel plus cixutumumab (IMC-A12) versus paclitaxel alone in this patient population.

III. To evaluate the toxicity of cixutumumab (IMC-A12) plus paclitaxel versus paclitaxel alone in this patient population.

IV. Exploratory analyses will assess potentially relevant cixutumumab (IMC-A12) pharmacodynamic biomarkers obtained from serum samples, including but not limited to, insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I, IGF-II, insulin-like growth factor binding protein (IGFBP)-2, and IGFBP-3.

OUTLINE: Patients are equally randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour at a dose of 80 mg/m\^2 on days 1, 8, and 15 of every 28 day cycle.

ARM II: Patients receive cixutumumab IV over 1 hour at a dose of 10 mg/kg on days 1 and 15 of every 28 day cycle and paclitaxel as in Arm I.

In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.