DT2216 + Paclitaxel in Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of this research study is determining the highest dose of the study drug DT2216 in combination with paclitaxel that can be safely and tolerably administered in recurrent ovarian cancer.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* DT2216 (a type of proteolysis-targeting chimera degrader of BCL-XL protein)
* Paclitaxel (a type of antimicrotubule agent)
Ovarian Cancer|Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovary Cancer|Recurrent Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma
DRUG: DT2216|DRUG: Paclitaxel
DT2216 Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The DT2216 MTD in combination with paclitaxel is determined by the number of participants who experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during cycle 1 and up to start of cycle 2. Dose (de-)escalation rules and the related selection of the MTD are based on the Bayesian Optimal Interval Design (BOIN)., Assessed on Day 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22 and 25 on cycle 1 and up to start of cycle 2; cycle 1 duration=28 days plus 14 days maximum until start of cycle 2, for a maximum time frame of 42 days.|Number of Participants Experiencing a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), A DLT is defined as including grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxicity with some exclusions and specific hematologic toxicities, both not clearly due to the underlying disease or extraneous causes, along with any death, treatment delays\>14 days and inability to receive at least 75% of assigned doses of each agent., Assessed on Day 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22 and 25 on cycle 1 and up to start of cycle 2; cycle 1 duration=28 days plus 14 days maximum until start of cycle 2, for a maximum time frame of 42 days.
Grade 4 Treatment-Related Toxicity Rate, Grade 4 treatment-related toxicity rate is the percentage of participants experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 4 adverse event (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 (CTCAEv5) as reported on case report forms., Assessed on Days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22 and 25 of each cycle on treatment (cycle duration=28 day). Treatment duration is not fixed and thus observation time is variable.|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants who achieve partial response (PR) or better based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) criteria on treatment., Assessed radiologically every 8 weeks on treatment up to 24 cycles (each cycle is 28 days), then every 16 weeks on treatment thereafter; treatment duration is not fixed, and thus observation time is variable.|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) per RECIST 1.1 or death. Participants alive without PD are censored at date of last disease assessment., Assessed radiologically every 8 weeks on treatment up to 24 cycles (each cycle is 28 days), then every 16 weeks on treatment thereafter, or in follow-up (the earlier of 30-days post-treatment discontinuation or death).|Median Duration of Response (DOR), DOR based on Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from PR or better until documented PD per RECIST 1.1 or death. Participants alive without PD are censored at date of last disease assessment., Assessed radiologically every 8 weeks on treatment up to 24 cycles (each cycle is 28 days), then every 16 weeks on treatment thereafter, or in follow-up (the earlier of 30-days post-treatment discontinuation or death).
This phase 1b dose-escalation study is to establish the recommended phase 2 dose and to evaluate the safety of combined dosing of the BCL-XL degrader DT2216 with weekly paclitaxel in recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. DT2216 is a drug that degrades a protein called BCL-XL which helps to protect cancer cells from cell death. Paclitaxel is an anti-cancer drug that is already used for the treatment of ovarian cancer.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved DT2216 as a treatment for ovarian cancer.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved paclitaxel as a treatment option for ovarian cancer, as a standalone treatment or in combination with other chemotherapy drugs, but not in combination with DT2216.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, in-clinic visits, blood tests, urine tests, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, and electrocardiograms (ECGs).

It is expected that about 30 people will take part in this research study.

Dialectic Therapeutics is supporting this research study by providing funding and the study drug DT2216. The Department of Defense (DoD) and the American Society for Clinical Oncology are also providing funding for this study.