Haploidentical Stem Cell Transplantation Using Post-Transplant Cyclophosphamide
Historically, the best results of allogeneic SCT have been obtained when the stem cell donor is a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched sibling, however, this is only available for approximately 30 percent of patients in need for SCT. Alternative donor sources include matched unrelated donor utilizing the donor registry, cord blood transplant and mismatched donor transplant. A human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-haploidentical donor is one who shares, by common inheritance, exactly one HLA haplotype with the recipient, and includes the biologic parents, biologic children and full or half siblings. There is strong body of evidence supporting the use of haplo-SCT in patient who lack a matched sibling or unrelated donor with high rates of successful engraftment, effective Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD) control and favorable outcomes comparative to those seen using other allograft sources, including HLA-matched sibling SCT. Furthermore, it provides a cost-efficient donor option in a timely manner especially for patients who need to proceed quickly to transplant due to concern of disease relapse/progression.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Non-hodgkin Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Mycophenolate mofetil|OTHER: Haploidentical Stem Cell Transplantation
Chimerism, Blood test that measures amount of donor's cells, 100 days
Neutrophil engraftment, Blood test that measures the white cell count, Day 28|Platelet engraftment, Blood test that measures the platelet count, Day 60|Grade 3 to 4 acute graft-verus-host disease (GVHD), National Institutes of Health Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease Grading and Form, 100 days|Frequency and severity of chronic GVHD, National Institutes of Health Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease Grading and Form, 1 year|Disease status with blast counts (immature blood cell count) above 5%, Blood work and/or bone marrow biopsy will be used, 3 years|Survival status by patient contact, Contact with patient by phone or doctor's visit, 3 years|Immune reconstitution, Blood work will be used to evaluate recovery of T and B cell count subset that assess cells which make antibodies to fight infections, 3 years|Grade 3 through 5 Adverse Events, Toxicities that are possibly, probably, and definitely related to study treatment according to NCI CTCAE Version 4, 2 years
An open label, single-arm, single-center study to evaluate the safety, efficacy and feasibility of haplo-SCT as an alternative donor source for patients who lack a matched sibling/unrelated donor options. The choice of the chemotherapy treatment for transplantation will be up to the investigator. Post-transplant cyclophosphamide will serve as the backbone of the immunosuppression treatment to prevent GVHD.

GVHD Prevention Treatment:

Cyclophosphamide will be administered IV on Day 3 and Day 5 post transplant.

Tacrolimus will be administered IV until patient can take it by mouth starting on day of transplant and continue approximately 100 days post-transplant.

Mycophenolate mofetil will be administered IV until patient can take it by mouth starting on Day 1 post transplant until 28 days.