Trabectedin in Treating Young Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Soft Tissue Sarcoma or Ewing's Family of Tumors
This phase II trial is studying how well trabectedin works in treating young patients with recurrent or refractory soft tissue sarcoma or Ewing's family of tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy such as trabectedin use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.
Previously Treated Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma|Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor
DRUG: trabectedin|OTHER: pharmacological study
Response (Complete Response [CR] and Partial Response [PR]), Any patient who is enrolled and receives at least one dose of trabectedin will be considered evaluable for response if the individual receives at least one dose of trabectedin and: (1) is removed from protocol therapy because of progressive disease where progressive disease is documented either by imaging studies or clinical progression; or (2) has at least one radiographic evaluation of disease status after the start of protocol therapy and is not electively removed from protocol therapy with stable disease or is not lost to follow-up with stable disease. Patients who achieve a complete response (CR) - disappearance of all target lesions or partial response (PR) - \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions according to the RECIST criteria will be considered responders for the study design. All other patients who are evaluable for response will be considered non-responders for the study., Twenty-six (26) cycles of chemotherapy or termination of protocol therapy, whichever occurs first.|Number of Patients With Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Any Grade 3 or Grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity attributable to the Investigational drug with the specific exclusion of: Grade 3 nausea and vomiting; Grade 3 transaminase (AST/ALT) elevation that return to less than or equal to Grade 1 or baseline prior to the time for the next treatment cycle; Grade 3 fever or infection; Alopecia; Grade 4 neutropenia of \> 7 days duration or Grade 4 thrombocytopenia of \> 7 days duration, which requires transfusion therapy on greater than 2 occasions in 7 days, or which causes a delay of more than 14 days beyond the planned interval between treatment cycles., 1 Cycle|Pharmacokinetics by a Miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method : Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Trabectedin, The plasma concentrations at each time point were determined by miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method. The plasma concentration-versus-time data of trabectedin were estimated using non-compartmental methods. Individual time points were not available, so one estimated Cmax was derived for each patient., From baseline up to168 hours after trabectedin infusion in course 1|Pharmacokinetics by a Miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method : Apparent Volume at Steady State (Vss) of Trabectedin, The plasma concentrations at each time point were determined by miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method. The plasma concentration-versus-time data of trabectedin were estimated using non-compartmental methods. Individual time points were not available, so one estimated Vss was derived for each patient., From baseline up to168 hours after trabectedin infusion in course 1|Pharmacokinetics by a Miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method : Half-life of Trabectedin, The plasma concentrations at each time point were determined by miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method. The plasma concentration-versus-time data of trabectedin were estimated using non-compartmental methods. Individual time points were not available, so one estimated Half-life was derived for each patient., From baseline up to168 hours after trabectedin infusion in course 1|Pharmacokinetics by a Miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method : Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Trabectedin, The plasma concentrations at each time point were determined by miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method. The plasma concentration-versus-time data of trabectedin were estimated using non-compartmental methods. Individual time points were not available, so one estimated AUC was derived for each patient., From baseline up to168 hours after trabectedin infusion in course 1|Pharmacokinetics by a Miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method : Clearance of Trabectedin, The plasma concentrations at each time point were determined by miniaturized Liquid Chromatography/Tandem Mass Spectrometry Method. The plasma concentration-versus-time data of trabectedin were estimated using non-compartmental methods. Individual time points were not available, so one estimated Clearance was derived for each patient., From baseline up to168 hours after trabectedin infusion in course 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate in pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory soft tissue sarcomas or Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors treated with ecteinascidin 743 (trabectedin).

II. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trabectedin IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21days for up to 26 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 5 years.