ctDNA in Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to test the potential for a liquid biopsy assay to detect residual disease after surgery in patients with cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma as well as the potential for this assay to monitor response to immunotherapy treatment.
Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blood and Tissue Collection
2-year recurrence-free survival (RFS) in patients with detectable vs no detectable ctDNA after surgery, To determine if there is an association between ctDNA clearance (defined as no detection of ctDNA) after surgical intervention and 2-year recurrence-free survival (RFS). The outcome will measure both ctDNA clearance (as a binary variable: detection or no detection) and RFS (measured in months). The association between these two outcomes will be analyzed as the primary outcome to determine if no detection of ctDNA is associated with longer RFS., 24 Months|Neoadjuvant Cohort Primary Outcome: Response Monitoring, To evaluate ctDNA as a biomarker of response to neoadjuvant immunotherapy., 24 Months|Definitive Treatment Cohort Primary Outcome, To evaluate whether ctDNA correlates with response to immunotherapy., 24 Months
Post-Operative Cohort Secondary Outcome: Residual Free Survival (RFS) Surveillance over 2 Year, To evaluate RFS during the surveillance period, stratified by ctDNA test status over time to determine if ctDNA levels predict recurrence, 24 Months|Neoadjuvant Cohort Secondary Outcome: Correlation with Pathological Response, To evaluate if ctDNA correlates with pathological response to neoadjuvant therapy. This will help determine if ctDNA may one day be used to help risk stratify which patients need surgery after neoadjuvant immunotherapy., 24 Months
Exploratory Outcome, To evaluate the time to ctDNA clearance (defined as the time from surgical intervention to the point where ctDNA is no longer detected, if ever) in the postoperative period, defined as months since surgery., 24 Months
The study aims to better understand whether circulating tumor DNA, or ctDNA, a type of personalized blood test informed by the tumor, can help monitor recurrence and treatment responses in patients with cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC), especially during and after treatment. Blood samples will be collected during regular treatment visits or through mobile phlebotomy visits, and analyzed to study how ctDNA levels change over time. Participants will be in the study for 2 years.

Circulating tumor DNA consists of small fragments of DNA shed into the bloodstream by cancer cells. It may serve as a non-invasive biomarker for detecting and monitoring CSCC, offering insights into tumor treatment response and/or progression. ctDNA can provide a "liquid biopsy," allowing real-time tracking of tumor dynamics. Specifically, the study is researching how ctDNA levels change in patients undergoing surgery, immunotherapy, or other standard treatments. The goal is to see if ctDNA can serve as a biomarker to better understand treatment response and detect potential progression/ recurrence of the cancer.

This study does not involve any experimental drugs or devices. All drugs and treatments administered to participants, including surgery and immunotherapy, are part of standard of care. The ctDNA blood test is being used as a research tool and is not currently approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for monitoring CSCC. The study aims to evaluate its potential future use as a reliable biomarker.