A Pilot Study of 5-AZA and ATRA for Prostate Cancer With PSA-only Recurrence After Local Treatment
This is a prospective, open-label, randomized, cross-over, pilot study of reprogramming therapy in patients with recurrent PCa based on rising PSA only. The primary objectives are to compare the disease progression-free rate at the end of 12 weeks of treatment between 5-AZA+ATRA and no therapy and to assess safety of the 5-AZA and ATRA combination. All study enrollees will receive Lupron. After one month, they will be assigned in a 1:1 randomization to either the '5-AZA+ATRA' group or the 'no therapy' group. Patients in the '5-AZA + ATRA' group will receive treatment on a 28-day cycle, in the absence of prohibitive toxicities, for 3 cycles. In the 'no therapy' group, patients will initially be observed for 3 cycles and then receive treatment for 3 cycles, in the absence of prohibitive toxicities. After the treatment period, all patients will be followed for up to 24 months from the start of the study or until the events leading to discontinuation are observed.
Prostatic Neoplasms|Prostate Neoplasms|Prostate Cancer
DRUG: 5-Azacitidine|DRUG: all trans retinoic acid|DRUG: Lupron
Number of Participants With PSA Response, Number of participants with PSA response, as defined by PSA decreased \> 30% as compared from baseline., baseline and 24 weeks
Percentage of Patients With Prolongation of PSA Doubling Time (PSADT) Post-treatment, Percentage of patients with prolongation of PSA doubling time (PSADT) post-treatment compared to baseline after treatment with 3 cycles of Aza and ATRA., baseline and 24 weeks
This is a prospective, open-label, randomized, cross-over, pilot study of reprogramming therapy in patients with recurrent PCa based on rising PSA only. The primary objectives are to compare the disease progression-free rate at the end of 12 weeks of treatment between 5-AZA+ATRA and no therapy and to assess safety of the 5-AZA and ATRA combination. All study enrollees will receive Lupron. After one month, they will be assigned in a 1:1 randomization to either the '5-AZA+ATRA' group or the 'no therapy' group. Patients in the '5-AZA + ATRA' group will receive treatment on a 28-day cycle, in the absence of prohibitive toxicities, for 3 cycles. In the 'no therapy' group, patients will initially be observed for 3 cycles and then receive treatment for 3 cycles, in the absence of prohibitive toxicities. After the treatment period, all patients will be followed for up to 24 months from the start of the study or until the events leading to discontinuation are observed.