Study of Dalantercept and Sorafenib in Patients With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of dalantercept plus sorafenib in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) to determine the recommended dose level of dalantercept in combination with sorafenib.
Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Dalantercept plus sorafenib
Number of Participants With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability., Assessed by monitoring AEs using the current active minor version on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE v4 current minor version), physical examinations, vital signs, clinical laboratory test, ECHO, ECG and ADA testing; through final study visit, up to approximately 20 weeks from first dose of dalantercept., up to approximately 20 weeks
Best Overall Response, The Best Overall Response (BOR) is the best response recorded from the start of the study treatment until the disease progression/recurrence, scored as one of the following: Complete Response (CR); Partial Response (PR); Stable Disease (SD) or Progressive Disease (PD).

Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), a CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. A PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD is defined as At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study., up to approximately 20 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), The proportion of participants alive from the initiation of treatment through end of study, up to approximately 20 weeks|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Percentage of patients whose disease improves or remains stable over a certain time period. DCR is the sum of the complete, partial and stable disease rates., up to approximately 20 weeks
The initial design of the study was a dose escalating approach in which dalantercept in combination with sorafenib, would be administered at increasing dose levels among 3 cohorts of subjects with HCC in order to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of the combination. Once the MTD was determined, a forth expansion cohort of subjects would be enrolled at the MTD to assess safety. A total of up to 38 subjects were planned.

The initial cohort (Cohort 1) enrolled 5 subjects at a dalantercept dose level of 0.6 mg/kg once every 3 weeks (Q3W) in combination with sorafenib (400 mg PO once daily). Following an assessment of safety/tolerability by a Safety Review Team, it was recommended to de-escalate the dalantercept dose for Cohort 2 to 0.4 mg/kg Q3W in combination with sorafenib (400 mg PO once daily); 6 subjects were enrolled.

The 0.4 mg/kg dose level was determined to be the MTD, and an additional 10 subjects were enrolled at that dose level in the expansion cohort (Cohort 3).

A formal Statistical Analysis Plan was initially planned for this study. However, due to its early termination, only cursory descriptive statistics were carried out on the available data; no formal SAP was prepared.