Hereditary Pheochromocytoma Assessment of Tumour Immunologies
In this study, the investigators are examining the role of the immune system in pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma. The investigators aim to examine the differences in the immune system between people who have these tumors with and without a hereditary predisposition. The investigators also want to see how the immune system changes during the development of the tumor in people with a hereditary predisposition. Finally, the investigators will compare the data with a control group of people without these tumors. Ultimately, the investigators hope that the results will contribute to the discovery of new immune system-targeted medications for pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma.
Pheochromocytoma|Paraganglioma
PROCEDURE: Venepuncture|PROCEDURE: Venepuncture
Immune cell response in circulation, both after stimulation and in an unstimulated state, measured as the concentration of inflammatory molecules and proteins., e.g. cytokines, Before surgery, 6 weeks after surgery, after 1 year, after 2 years.|Immune cell composition in histological PPGL specimens and in circulation., Before surgery, 6 weeks after surgery, after 1 year, after 2 years. Histological specimens will only be obtained during surgery.
Transcriptional and epigenetic signature of circulating immune cells., Before surgery, 6 weeks after surgery, after 1 year, after 2 years.|Concentration of immunomodulating metabolites in circulation., e.g. catecholamines, succinate., Before surgery, 6 weeks after surgery, after 1 year, after 2 years.|Trained immunity assessment of circulating immune cells., Before surgery, 6 weeks after surgery, after 1 year, after 2 years.|Tumour recurrence rate, After 1 year, after 2 years.|Metastasis rate, Before surgery, after 1 year, after 2 years.|Survival rate, After 1 year, after 2 years.
Rationale: Pheochromocytoma and Paraganglioma (PPGL) represent rare, catecholamine-secreting tumours (1). Genetic or sporadic mutations, accounting for approximately 70% of cases, significantly contribute to PPGL development, and are categorized into three clusters based on tumour formation mechanisms (2,3). Current treatment options, particularly for advanced or metastatic disease, are limited (4). Understanding the immune system's role and the impact of genetics on tumour immunology in PPGL could unveil crucial insights for therapeutic advancements. Earlier studies emphasized the immunogenic nature of PPGL, highlighting the tumour microenvironment (TME) and circulatory factors as key components (5-7). However, these studies lack specific examination of genotypes' effect on the immune system. This study aims to address this gap in two parts, particularly focusing on differences between genetic clusters.

Objective: To examine the differences in the immune system in PPGL regarding genetics. Part I will examine immune cell composition and response in circulation. Part II will examine immune cell composition in TME.

Study design: Part I will be a partly cross-sectional and partly prospective cohort study. Part II will be a histological study of retrospectively and prospectively collected PPGL samples.

Study population: Part I will include 80 patients with PPGL, 80 carriers of germline mutations predisposing for PPGL, and 40 sex and age matched healthy volunteers. Part II will include histological samples of 80 patients with hereditary disease and 80 patients with sporadic disease.

Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study outcomes are inflammatory molecules and proteins produced by stimulated and unstimulated immune cells from circulation, immune cell composition in histological PPGL samples and in circulation, and their genetic determinants. Secondary outcomes will comprise of transcriptional and epigenetic signature of circulating immune cells, circulating immunomodulating metabolites, trained immunity, and clinical outcomes such as tumour metastasis, survival.

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: For patients and mutation carriers, there is no direct benefit in participating in this study. However, by participating, they can contribute to the acquisition of scientific knowledge and the development of new therapeutic targets and novel disease management strategies. Such strategies might benefit patients and mutation carriers in the future if they potentially develop advanced disease. There are no risks associated with the study. There are no interventions other than those related to the regular patient care (venipuncture). Thus, this study is considered to impose a low burden on patients.