Interleukin-6 Receptor Inhibitor Sarilumab in Combination With Ipilimumab, Nivolumab and Relatlimab in Patients With Unresectable Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma
The study will evaluate how safe the study drug is, how well you tolerate it, and how it works in the body and the disease's response to the drug. The study drug being tested is sarilumab, when given with the combination of ipilimumab, nivolumab, and relatlimab in patients with stage III or stage IV melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery. Previous studies have provided a strong rationale for combining sarilumab, with ipilimumab, nivolumab and relatlimab in metastatic melanoma to reduce side effects and potentially work better for this type of cancer. Sarilumab is an FDA-approved inhibitor of the receptor for the cytokine IL-6, currently approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, but it is not FDA-approved to treat melanoma. This means that the use of Sarilumab to treat melanoma is considered investigational. The other drugs which will be administered in this study, ipilimumab and nivolumab, are also monoclonal antibodies, but they target different proteins. Ipilimumab and nivolumab are both approved by the FDA to treat advanced stage III and IV melanomas. The nivolumab + relatlimab FDC (fixed dose combination) being used in this study is considered investigational, meaning it is not approved by the FDA.
Melanoma|Unresectable Melanoma
DRUG: Sarilumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab Injection|DRUG: Nivolumab/Relatlimab
Number of Grades 3-5 Treatment-Related Immune-Related Adverse Events (irAE) per NCI CTCAE v 5.0 Criteria, The National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v 5.0) grades adverse events by the following scale:

Grade 1 - Mild, Grade 2 - Moderate, Grade 3 - Severe, Grade 4 - Life-threatening, Grade 5 - Death

Safety will be measured by physical examinations, vital sign measurements, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status evaluations, AE assessments, laboratory testing, electrocardiograms (ECGs), oxygen saturation, and concomitant medications., week 24 (+/- 7 days)|Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) Category, Each patient will be assigned one of the following categories:

1. = Complete Response (CR) = Disappearance of all target lesions;
2. = Partial Response (PR) = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions.
3. = Stable Disease (SD) = Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since treatment started.
4. = Progressive Disease (PD) = At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions.
5. = Early death from malignant disease
6. = Early death from toxicity
7. = early death because of other cause

9 = Unknown (not assessable, insufficient data), week 24 (+/- 7 days)
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS) will be reported as the time from first dosing to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause. If a patient has not progressed or died at the time of analysis, PFS will be censored on the date of the last disease assessment. Patients who do not have any tumor assessment on treatment will be censored on the day of the first dose., Up to Month 31|Overall survival (OS), Overall Survival will be reported as the time from first dosing to death due to any cause. If a patient has not died at the time of analysis, OS will be censored as of their last known date alive (i.e., last time patient was contacted for any reason in the study). Patients who do not have any tumor assessment on treatment will be followed up for OS, and their date of death will be incorporated into the OS analysis., Up to Month 31|Best overall response (iBOR), iBOR will be reported as the best timepoint response recorded from the time the measurement criteria are met for partial response (PR) or complete (CR), whichever is recorded first, until the date of documented PD or death., week 24 (+/- 7 days)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Total number of patients whose best response outcome is a Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD), divided by the total number of evaluable patients.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v 1.1):

CR = Disappearance of all target lesions; PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; SD = Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since treatment started., Month 31|Duration of Overall Response, Among patients whose best response to treatment is a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR): The time between the date measurement criteria are met for PR or CR, whichever is recorded first, and the date of documented Progressive Disease (PD) or death.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v 1.1):

CR = Disappearance of all target lesions; PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD PD = At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Month 31|Duration of disease control, Among patients who had an Overall Response Rate (ORR) outcome of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD): The time from first dosing to documented disease progression.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v 1.1):

CR = Disappearance of all target lesions; PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; SD = Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since treatment started., Up to Month 31|Immune-related Response Rate (irRR) per irRC criteria, The highest Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC) designation given over 24 weeks, where:

1. = Immune related complete response (irCR) = Complete disappearance of all tumor lesions
2. = Immune related partial response (irPR) = A decrease relative to baseline of the immune related sum of products of diameters (irSPD) of 50% or greater
3. = Immune related stable disease (irSD) = An evaluable response that fails to meet criteria for irCR or irPR, in the absence of progressive disease
4. = Immune related progressive disease (irPD) = At least a 25% increase in the irSPD over the lowest irSPD
5. = Immune related unknown response (irUN) = Tumor assessments that cannot be evaluated, Week 24|Immune-related Response Rate (irRR) per irRC criteria, The total number of response-evaluable patients whose Immune Related Best Overall Response (irBOR) outcome is immune related complete response (irCR) or immune related partial response (irPR), per Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC):

irCR = Complete disappearance of all tumor lesions irPR = A decrease relative to baseline of the immune related sum of products of diameters (irSPD) of 50% or greater, Month 31|Immune-related Disease Control Rate per irRC criteria, The total number of the response-evaluable patients whose Immune Related Best Overall Response (irBOR) outcome is immune related complete response (irCR), immune related partial response (irPR) or immune-related stable disease (irSD), per Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC):

irCR = Complete disappearance of all tumor lesions irPR = A decrease relative to baseline of the immune related sum of products of diameters (irSPD) of 50% or greater irSD = An evaluable response that fails to meet criteria for irCR or irPR, in the absence of progressive disease, Month 31|Immune-related Progression-Free Survival (irPFS), The time between first dosing and the date of immune-related progressive disease (irPD) or death, whichever occurs first. For patients with no recorded post-baseline tumor assessment, irPFS will be censored at the day of first dose. A patient who dies without reported irPD will be considered to have progressed on the date of death. For those who remain alive and have no irPD, irPFS will be censored on the date of last evaluable tumor assessment. Patients who do not have any tumor assessment on treatment will be censored on the day of the first dose.

Per Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC):

irPD = At least a 25% increase in the irSPD over the lowest immune related sum of products of diameters, Month 31|Duration of Immune-related Overall Response, Duration of Immune-related Overall Response will be computed for all patients whose irBOR outcome is either an irPR or irCR and is calculated from the time the measurement criteria are met for irPR or irCR, whichever is recorded first, until the date of documented PD or death by irRC, Month 31|Duration of Immune-related Disease Control, Among patients with Immune-related Overall Response outcome of immune related complete response (irCR), immune related partial response (irPR), or immune-related stable disease (irSD): The time between the date treatment began and the date of documented disease progression.

Per Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC):

irCR = Complete disappearance of all tumor lesions irPR = A decrease relative to baseline of the immune related sum of products of diameters (irSPD) of 50% or greater irSD = An evaluable response that fails to meet criteria for irCR or irPR, in the absence of progressive disease, Month 31
In this Phase II, open-label study, the treatment period will consist of an induction phase and a maintenance phase. The induction phase consists of an induction treatment cycle of 8 weeks which is the DLT period. The maintenance phase consists of treatment cycles of 56 days (8 weeks) each, and may extend up to 2 years. During the induction phase, ipilimumab will be administered on day 1 at a dose of 1 mg/kg intravenously (IV) during the 8-week induction period, concurrent with nivolumab 480 mg/relatlimab at 160 mg, fixed dose, administered at a 4 week interval on days 1 and 29 with a 30 minute rest period between the two infusions on day 1 and 29. On days administered in combination, nivolumab/relatlimab will be administered first at a dose of 480 mg/160 mg, followed by ipilimumab at 1 mg/kg, and immediately followed by sarilumab at 150 mg given subcutaneously. Nivolumab/relatlimab and ipilimumab will be each administered IV over 30 minutes consecutively with a 30-minute rest period between infusions, on day 1 of the first and all subsequent 56-day maintenance treatment cycles and nivolumab/relatlimab will be administered on day 29 of each cycle. Sarilumab will be administered subcutaneously every 2 weeks during the 56-day induction treatment cycle and the first two 56-day maintenance cycles only for a total of 24 weeks