Monoclonal Antibody-Based Sequential Therapy for Deep Remission in Multiple Myeloma
Multiple myeloma (MM), a plasma cell disorder, is the second most common hematologic malignancy in the U.S. No standard curative therapy has yet been found. A variety of therapeutic measures including high dose melphalan, induction therapy, and continuous therapy have been used but the goal of complete response without relapse has not been achieved. More active treatment regimens and better tools for response assessment are needed.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: KRdD followed by auto-HCT|DRUG: KRdD only
Percentage of Patients With MRD(-) Remissions at the Completion of Consolidation Therapy, The primary endpoint of MRD(-) rate, or percentage of patients with MRD(-) remissions, will be estimated along with two-sided 95% confidence interval using Clopper-Pearson exact method. Simon's optimal two-stage design will be utilized in determining the rate of MRD(-) cases. MRD assessment will be done with ClonoSEQ to identify myeloma-specific sequences., Baseline until MRD(-) is reached estimated to be up to 15 months.
Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) From the KRdD Treatment, The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 will be used for this assessment. SAEs include events that are Grade 3 and above; non-serious events are Grades 1-2., Baseline until the progression of disease or MRD(-) status up to an estimated 15 months.|Percentage of Patients With MRD(-) Status at the Completion of Induction Therapy, The primary endpoint of MRD(-) rate will be estimated along with two-sided 95% confidence interval using Clopper-Pearson exact method. Simon's optimal two-stage design will be utilized in determining the rate of MRD(-) cases. MRD assessment will be done with ClonoSEQ to identify myeloma-specific sequences., Baseline until MRD(-) status estimated at 6 months or until disease progression|Percentage of Patients With Auto-HCT That Convert From Positive to Negative MRD, The primary endpoint of MRD(-) rate will be estimated along with two-sided 95% confidence interval using Clopper-Pearson exact method. Simon's optimal two-stage design will be utilized in determining the rate of MRD(-) cases. MRD assessment will be done with ClonoSEQ to identify myeloma-specific sequences., From baseline up to an estimated 9 months|Percentage of Patients Achieving Complete Remission Following Complete Therapy, The primary endpoint of MRD(-) rate will be estimated along with two-sided 95% confidence interval using Clopper-Pearson exact method. Simon's optimal two-stage design will be utilized in determining the rate of MRD(-) cases. MRD assessment will be done with ClonoSEQ to identify myeloma-specific sequences. Complete therapy incorporates induction and consolidation therapy., Baseline up to 15 months|Percentage of Patients That Convert From MRD(-) to MRD(+) Following Treatment Discontinuation, The primary endpoint of MRD(-) rate will be estimated along with two-sided 95% confidence interval using Clopper-Pearson exact method. Simon's optimal two-stage design will be utilized in determining the rate of MRD(-) cases. MRD assessment will be done with ClonoSEQ to identify myeloma-specific sequences., Baseline to 2 years|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the interval from the start of therapy to the earliest occurrence of the following: disease progression, initiation of anti-myeloma therapy that is not an accepted maintenance therapy of lenalidomide or death from any cause. Kaplan-Meier methods will used., From date of study entry until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 58 months.|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from date of study enrollment until death from any cause., From date of study entry until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 58 months.
This trial will assess the safety and efficacy of an induction therapy using the combination of dexamethasone, lenalidomide (revlimid), daratumumab (Darzalex) and carfilzomib (Kyprolis) to treat patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. The therapy with KRdD (Kyprolis, Revlimid, dexamethasone, Darzalex) will be followed by autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (auto-HCT) and KRdD consolidation. Duration of therapy will be guided by eradication of minimal residual disease (MRD). The hypothesis is that the KRdD therapy particularly in combination with the auto-HCT will be safe and lead to deep remission. Patients who become MRD- will discontinue therapy (no maintenance therapy) and be actively monitored for resurgence of MRD or clinical relapse.