CPI-613, Bendamustine Hydrochloride, and Rituximab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of CPI-613 (6,8-bis\[benzylthio\]octanoic acid) when given together with bendamustine hydrochloride and rituximab in treating patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back or has not responded to treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid and bendamustine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may find cancer cells and help kill them. Giving 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid with bendamustine hydrochloride and rituximab may kill more cancer cells.
B-cell Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Cutaneous B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Intraocular Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia|Small Intestine Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Testicular Lymphoma|Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid|DRUG: bendamustine hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid, when used in combination with bendamustine hydrochloride and rituximab determined by dose-limiting toxicities graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Will be accomplished by monitoring toxicities and using the dose escalation plan., 4 weeks
Response rate assessed by the modified IWG criteria, The response rate and its 95% confidence interval will be assessed., Up to 2 years|Disease control rate assessed by the modified IWG criteria, The DCR and its 95% confidence interval will be assessed., Up to 2 years|Overall survival assessed by the modified IWG criteria, OS curves will be plotted using Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival assessed by the modified IWG criteria, PFS curves will be plotted using Kaplan-Meier methods and median PFS will be examined., Up to 2 years|Bone marrow biopsy analysis, Evaluation of bone marrow and possible correlation between CR vs. bone marrow biopsy assessments such as clear of infiltration of leukemic cells accordingly to morphology, and/or negative on leukemic cells according to immunohistochemistry. Correlations will be estimated to examine the relationship between results from bone marrow biopsies and response and time to event results., Baseline|Incidence of toxicities graded according to NCI CTCAE, Will be examined by looking at each toxicity identified earlier in the protocol by grade., Up to 6 courses
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of CPI-613, when used in combination with bendamustine (bendamustine hydrochloride) and rituximab in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), who have or have not received hematopoietic cell transplant.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate response rate (RR) and disease control rate (DCR), derived from the modified International Work Group (IWG) criteria.

II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) and progression-free-survival (PFS), and possible correlation between RR and DCR derived from the modified IWG criteria vs. OS and PFS.

III. To evaluate assessment of bone marrow biopsy, and possible correlation between complete response (CR) vs. bone marrow biopsy assessment (e.g., clear of infiltration of leukemic cells accordingly to morphology, and/or negative on leukemic cells according to immunohistochemistry).

IV. To evaluate safety of the CPI-613 + bendamustine + rituximab combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid.

Patients receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1-4 (week 1) and days 1 and 4 (weeks 2 and 3). Patients also receive bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 4 and 5 and rituximab on day 5 of week 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months.