Effect of Vitamin C on Postoperative Pulmonary Complications After Intracranial Tumor Surgery
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the effect of perioperative administration of vitamin C on postoperative pulmonary complications, with the aim of providing a safe and effective medication regimen for the prevention and treatment of postoperative pulmonary complications in patients undergoing surgery for craniocerebral tumors. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. To determine whether vitamin C can reduce pulmonary complications after surgery for intracranial tumors.
2. Does intraoperative vitamin C improve the prognosis of surgical patients

Researchers will compare vitamin C to a placebo (saline) to see if vitamin C is effective for postoperative lung complications in patients undergoing surgery for cranial tumors.

1. Participants will be intravenously pumped with vitamin C for two hours after induction of anesthesia.
2. Participants will have intraoperative plasma sampling and recording of ventilator parameters, monitor parameters and perioperative data.
3. Participants will be followed up until discharge from the hospital to record symptoms and adverse events, and will be called at six months to check on their prognosis.
Ascorbic Acid|Neurosurgical Procedures|Humans|Ventilator-Induced Lung Injury|Postoperative Complications
DRUG: Ascorbic acid|DRUG: Saline
incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications, This will be assessed using the Postoperative Pulmonary Complications Score, which ranges from 0 to 5, with a score of ≥3 being considered positive for postoperative pulmonary complications. It was assessed every day before discharge and the highest score that occurred was recorded., About 10 days
Neuron-specific enolase levels, Plasma levels of neuron-specific enolase, unit is ng/ml, Post operative day 1|Length of hospitalization, Length of time between participant's completion of surgery and discharge, About 10 days|Oxygenation index, PaO2/FiO2, in millimeters of mercury, One hour postoperative|Pain scores, Patient's postoperative pain level; Using a "Pain Visual Analogue Scale", a 10-centimeter-long ruler was used, with 0 indicating no pain and 10 representing the most intense pain that was intolerable. During the test, the participant points to the scale that best represents the level of pain, and the researcher assigns the participant a score based on the location of the point., 1 day, 3 days, 7 days postoperative|pulmonary compliance, lung compliance in Milliliter/ centimeter water column, Last hour of surgery.|Interleukin-6, The level of Interleukin-6 in the blood, in nanograms per liter, 1 day, 3 days, 7 days postoperative|superoxide dismutase (SOD), Blood levels of superoxide dismutase, in units per milliliter, 1 day, 3 days, 7 days postoperative|body temperature, Postoperative body temperature in degrees Celsius, 1 day, 3 days, 7 days postoperative|blood pressure, Systolic and diastolic blood pressure，In millimeters of mercury, About 10 days|Brain-specific cardiolipin, Plasma levels of brain-specific cardiolipin, About 3 days|neutrophil, Levels of neutrophils in the blood, measured in units per liter., About 10 days|C-reactive protein, Level of C-reactive protein in the blood in milligrams per liter, 1 day, 3 days, 7 days postoperative
Neurosurgery has a high incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications, increasing patient costs and affecting patient prognosis. Neurosurgery often requires hyperventilation to reduce intracranial pressure, so methods to reduce postoperative pulmonary complications such as small tidal volumes cannot be used routinely, and larger tidal volumes often result in injury to pulmonary endothelial cells, which leads to increased permeability of the pulmonary microvasculature, resulting in mechanically ventilated lung injury. Of course surgical injuries and mechanical ventilation can also cause oxidative stress injury to the lungs. Vitamin C is a common antioxidant drug and cofactor in the synthesis of many substances in the body, and many studies have shown that vitamin C prevents the increase in endothelial barrier permeability due to many causes. During the COVID-19 epidemic, vitamin C is seen as an important adjunct in preventing and ameliorating symptoms of COVID-19 patients. not only that, but vitamin C also assisted in postoperative analgesia and promote incision healing, so investigators would like to observe that by giving vitamin C during the surgery is able to prevent the occurrence of postoperative pulmonary complications or improve the prognosis of participants.