Dalpicilib Plus Cetuximab Compared With Cetuximab Alone in HPV-negative, Anti-PD-1-resistant R/M HNSCC
This study is a single center, randomized controlled, prospective phase II clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cetuximab combined with dalpicilib compared to cetuximab monotherapy in patients with HPV-negative, anti-PD-1-resistant recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The participants would receive cetuximab combined with dalpicilib or cetuximab monotherapy until termination criteria are met.
Recurrent/Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Dalpicilib combined with cetuximab|DRUG: cetuximab
Progression Free Survival Per RECIST 1.1, PFS was defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented PD per RECIST 1.1, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum had to demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD, 12 months
objective response rate, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a Complete Response (CR:

disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1., 12 months|overall survival, OS was defined as the time from enrollment to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the final analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up., 12 months|Number of Participants Experiencing an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product was also an AE. The number of participants that experienced at least one AE was reported for each treatment arm., 12 months
This study is a single center, randomized controlled, prospective phase II clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cetuximab combined with dalpicilib compared to cetuximab monotherapy in patients with HPV-negative, anti-PD-1-resistant recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. The participants would receive cetuximab combined with dalpicilib or cetuximab monotherapy until termination criteria are met.