ModraDoc006/r vs Docetaxel IV in Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This is a multicenter phase 2b study to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of ModraDoc006 in combination with ritonavir (denoted ModraDoc006/r) in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, suitable for treatment with a taxane.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic|Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel in Parenteral Dosage Form|DRUG: ModraDoc006/r
Radiographic Progression Free Survival (rPFS), Evaluation of rPFS that will be observed as measured by Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria, in patients with metastatic prostate cancer after treatment with ModraDoc006/r or docetaxel IV.

Radiographic disease progression was defined by the local assessment of:

* Progressive disease by RECIST v1.1. for soft tissue disease
* Or the appearance of 2 or more new bone lesions on bone scan (PCWG3), Time from the date of randomization to the date of the first radiologic progression (per PCWG3 criteria) or death from any cause, whichever occurred first, an average of 1 year.
Adverse Event Profile (Safety), The hematological and non-hematological safety profile of ModraDoc006/r will be assessed by clinical and laboratory evaluations according to CTCAE v5.0., Evaluation of all adverse events during the complete study treatment until 28 days after the last intake, an average of 1 year.|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of patients evaluable for radiological response (ERR) per Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3)-modified Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI with best overall response of either Complete Response (CR), i.e. disappearance of all target lesions, or Partial Response (PR), i.e. ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. PCGW3-modified RECIST 1.1 criteria implements the requirement for confirmation of progression at least 6 weeks later for bone lesions at all measurement time points, and for soft tissue lesions after the first measurement (after 2 months) only. Tumor measurements were scheduled after every 8 treatment weeks for the first 24 weeks (i.e. during Week 9, Week 17 and Week 25) and every 12 weeks thereafter., From baseline during the complete study treatment, including follow-up visit 28 days after the last treatment, an average of 1 year.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate is calculated by the percentage of patients with Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; and Stable Disease (SD), ≤20% increase to \<30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI. Disease control rate is presented by treatment group for patients that were evaluable for radiological response for the overall study., From baseline through study completion, an average of 1 year|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the median time in months from documentation of first tumor response to the first objective evidence of radiologic progression, as measured per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI, in the subpopulation of patients experiencing a Complete Response (CR), i.e. Disappearance of all target lesions; and Partial Response (PR), i.e. ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., From baseline through study completion, an average of 1 year|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to Progression is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first radiologic progression per PCWG3 criteria., Time from the date of randomization to the date of the first radiologic progression, an average of 1 year.|PSA Response Rate, PSA decline of \>50% from baseline with confirmatory read ≥3 weeks later, based on the Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria recommendations., From baseline through study completion, an average of 1 year|PSA-PFS, Prostate-Specific Antigen Progression-Free Survival (PSA-PFS) according to Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) guidance.

Prostate-specific antigen progression was defined as per PCWG3 guidance:

* If a patient presented first a decline from baseline, progression was defined as the first PSA increase that was ≥25% and ≥2 ng/mL above the nadir, and which was confirmed by a consecutive second value ≥3 weeks later that fulfilled the same criteria (i.e., a confirmed rising trend)
* If a patient did not present a decline from baseline, progression was defined as the first PSA increase that was ≥25% and ≥2 ng/mL increased from baseline beyond 12 weeks., Time from the date of randomization to the date of the first prostate-specific antigen progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first, an average of 1 year.|Time to PSA Progression, Time to PSA progression was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the PSA progression as defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3).

Prostate-specific antigen progression was defined as per PCWG3 guidance:

* If a patient presented first a decline from baseline, progression was defined as the first PSA increase that was ≥25% and ≥2 ng/mL above the nadir, and which was confirmed by a consecutive second value ≥3 weeks later that fulfilled the same criteria (i.e., a confirmed rising trend)
* If a patient did not present a decline from baseline, progression was defined as the first PSA increase that was ≥25% and ≥2 ng/mL increased from baseline beyond 12 weeks., From baseline through study completion, an average of 1 year|Number of Participants Who Experienced a First Skeletal-Related Event, Number of Participants who Experienced a first Skeletal-Related Event (SRE), i.e. the occurrence of the first skeletal-related event (i.e. radiation therapy or surgery to bone, clinically apparent pathological bone fracture, spinal cord compression, or change of antineoplastic therapy to treat bone pain); from the time of randomisation to the first occurrence.

Note: Due to small number of SREs the median time to SRE was not evaluable in this patient population., From baseline through study completion, an average of 1 year
Overall Health-Related Quality of Life Response, An overall Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) improvement was defined by a 10-point or greater increase (= lower score) in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-global (FACT-G) total score assessment at a post-baseline assessment compared with baseline, at least once during the study.

The FACT-G questionnaire contains 27-items to measure four domains of HRQoL on a 5 point Likert-type scale in cancer patients: Physical Well-Being (7 items; score range 0-28), Social/Family Well-Being (7 items; score range 0-28), Emotional Well-Being (6 items; score range 0-24), Functional Well-Being (7 items; score range 0-28). Higher scores and increases from baseline indicate higher quality of life., From baseline through to end of Cycle 10 (each cycle was 21 days)|Summary of Improvement by Individual Health- Related Quality of Life Domains, Improvement for individual patients in Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) domains was defined by a ≥3-point increase in the score of a 5 point Likert-like scale at a post-baseline assessment compared with baseline, at least once during study for Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-G, -P and -T. Improvement was derived using all assessments collected per protocol schedule, i.e. Baseline, End of Cycle 3, 6 and 10 (or End of Treatment if sooner). Higher scores represent better HRQoL.

FACT-G = global scale, measures four domains of HRQoL in cancer patients: Physical Well-Being (7 items; score range 0-28), Social/Family Well-Being (7 items; range 0-28), Emotional Well-Being (6 items; range 0-24), Functional Well-Being (7 items; range 0-28). Total score (range 0-108) FACT-P = prostate cancer sub scale (12 items; score range 0-48). Total score (FACT-G total score + FACT-P), range 0-156) FACT-T = taxane specific domain score (16 items, range 0 to 64), Total score (0-172), Improvement assessed at any timepoint from baseline through to End of Cycle 10 (each cycle was 21 days)|Overall Health-Related Utility, Mean change from baseline to the End of Cycle 10 in the European Quality of Life Dimension-Five Level Scale (EQD5) is presented.

For the EQD5, mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression were scored on a 5-point scale: no problems (1), slight problems (2), moderate problems (3), severe problems (4), and extreme problems (5). Lower scores and decreases from baseline indicate improved quality of life.

A visual analog scale (VAS) was used for the patient to evaluate their health state at a particular visit; the scale was numbered from 0 (representing the worst health imaginable) to 100 (representing the best health imaginable), higher scores and increases from baseline indicate improved health., Assessed from baseline to End of Cycle 10 (each cycle was 21 days)|World Health Organization Performance Status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) at End of Treatment, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) scores at the time of end on treatment visit are presented.

0 = Normal activity

1. = Symptoms, but nearly ambulatory
2. = Symptomatic, but in bed \<50% of the day
3. = Needs to be in bed \>50% of the day, but not bedridden
4. = Unable to get out of bed
5. = Dead, Score assessed at end of treatment visit (up to 2 years).
This is an open label 1:1 randomized Phase 2b trial to determine the efficacy and tolerability of oral ModraDoc006/r versus i.v. docetaxel in mCRPC subjects. Cohort 1 will receive i.v. docetaxel at 75 mg/m2 every 3 weeks (Q3W). Cohort 2 will receive 30 mg ModraDoc006 in combination with 200 mg ritonavir in the morning and 20 mg ModraDoc006 in combination with 100 mg ritonavir in the evening (7-12 hours after the morning dose), on Day 1, 8 and 15 of a 21-day cycle (BIDW). All patients will also receive 5 mg oral prednisone twice daily. Treatment in both cohorts will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or discontinuation for any other reason. The end of the trial is defined as the time point when all subjects have discontinued trial treatment and have been given follow-up for safety measurements according to the trial assessment schedule.