68Ga-THP-PSMA PET/CT Imaging in High Risk Primary Prostate Cancer or Biochemical Recurrence of Prostate Cancer
This will be an open-labelled, single centre study in the UK. The study group will include 60 patients with three groups of patients being studied. Group A will consist of 20 patients who have been newly diagnosed with primary high risk prostate cancer and are scheduled for radical prostatectomy surgery. Group B will consist of 20 patients with a diagnosis of BCR with previous radical prostatectomy, and are being considered for radical salvage therapy. Group C will consist of 20 patients with a diagnosis of BCR with previous radical radiotherapy (but no surgery), and are being considered for radical salvage therapy.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Gallium-68 THP-PSMA
Change in Patient Management, The impact of 68Ga-THP-PSMA PET/CT on the management of patients with PCa was analysed by measuring the percentage of patients who had a change in management plan as a result of 68Ga-THP-PSMA PET/CT documented after scan, compared with their pre-scan management plan. A change status of 'Yes' was assigned if there was any difference in treatment options between the intended and revised management plans. A change status of 'No' was assigned if the intended and revised management plans remained identical. This endpoint was assessed in the full analysis set, but as a sensitivity analysis, was also assessed in the per protocol population in case there was a difference between the populations. As all 49 patients underwent a technically successful post-baseline scan, the full analysis set and per protocol populations were the same., up to 3 months post PET/CT
Safety - Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, Safety was assessed by means of physical examination, vital signs, cardiovascular profile, performance status, laboratory evaluations (haematology, biochemistry, urinalysis and prostate-specific antigen), recording of concurrent illness/therapy and AEs. No dose limiting toxicity was defined in this study., Safety was assessed at screening, during the study and at Visit 4. AEs, regardless of relationship to study treatment, were recorded from the time of 68Ga-THP-PSMA administration until 30 days after the administration of 68Ga-THP-PSMA.
This will be an open-labelled, single centre study in the UK. The study group will include 60 patients with three groups of patients being studied. Group A will consist of 20 patients who have been newly diagnosed with primary high risk prostate cancer and are scheduled for radical prostatectomy surgery. Group B will consist of 20 patients with a diagnosis of BCR with previous radical prostatectomy, and are being considered for radical salvage therapy. Group C will consist of 20 patients with a diagnosis of BCR with previous radical radiotherapy (but no surgery), and are being considered for radical salvage therapy.