Detecting Lung Cancer Based on Exhaled Breath
Early detection is critical to improve the overall survival of lung cancer. Endogenous volatile organic compounds (VOCs) can be derived from many different metabolic pathways. On the other hand, cancer cells have different metabolism patterns compared with normal cells. Thus, detecting VOCs in exhaled breath using highly sensitive mass spectrometry would be a promising approach for lung cancer detection.
Carcinoma|Lung Cancer|NSCLC|Lung Neoplasms
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Breath test
Diagnostic sensitivity of exhaled breath, Using pathologic diagnosis of lung cancer as gold standard, diagnostic sensitivity of exhaled breath will be calculated, 2 year|Diagnostic specificity of exhaled breath, Using pathologic diagnosis of lung cancer as gold standard, diagnostic specificity of exhaled breath will be calculated, 2 year|Positive predictive value of exhaled breath, Using pathologic diagnosis of lung cancer as gold standard, positive predictive value of exhaled breath will be calculated, 2 year|Negative predictive value of exhaled breath, Using pathologic diagnosis of lung cancer as gold standard, negative predictive value of exhaled breath will be calculated, 2 year|Diagnostic accuracy of exhaled breath, Using pathologic diagnosis of lung cancer as gold standard, diagnostic accuracy of exhaled breath will be calculated, 2 year
Endogenous volatile organic compounds (VOCs) can be derived from many different metabolic pathways. VOCs can be transported to the alveoli through the blood circulation and expelled by exhalation. Changes in VOCs production, clearance, and alterations in lung air-blood exchange functions can lead to aberrant VOCs profiles in the exhaled breath. Testing exhaled breath has the advantages of being completely non-invasive and easy to collect, and has been considered as a perfect approach for disease diagnoses and therapeutic monitoring. Many clinical studies have found that VOCs in exhaled breath are closely related to disease status. Specific VOCs alterations have been identified in many tumors, especially lung cancer.

In this study, we use a highly sensitive mass spectrometry to detect exhaled VOCs of lung cancer patients and healthy people. A lung cancer diagnosis model based on mass spectrometry data and support vector machine will be initially established and validated.