F18 Fluciclovine PET/CT in Assessing Tumor Volume and Radiation Therapy Response in Patients With Glioblastoma Undergoing Surgery
This early phase I trial studies how well F18 fluciclovine positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) works in assessing tumor volume and radiation therapy response in patients with glioblastoma undergoing surgery. Radioactive imaging agents, such as F18 fluciclovine, used during PET/CT scan may help measure tumor size compared to standard of care magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) contrast agents in patients receiving radiation therapy.
Glioblastoma
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fluciclovine F18|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Tumor volume, Will be assessed with fluciclovine F18 (F18 fluciclovine) positron emission tomography (PET) computed tomography (CT). The three volumes measured (amino acid hypermetabolic volume \[AHV\], T2 fluid attenuated inversion recovery \[FLAIR\] and T1 contrast \[T1C\]) will be compared to each other for each patient, and plotted as boxplots, both raw (as mL) and as normalized values (to the T1C volume) to facilitate comparisons between patients., Up to 6 months
Changes in F18 fluciclovine defined disease with surgery and radiation, Will compare tumor volumes measured by this method between the initial time point and the three follow-up time points within patients using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests., Baseline up to 6 months|Post-radiation enhancing brain tissue, To assess the relationship between post-radiation enhancing brain tissue and F18 fluciclovine activity, will use rank correlation analysis., Up to 6 months
Results from pathology, Will use rank correlation analysis to assess the association between results from pathology and F18 fluciclovine, T2 FLAIR, and T1 post-contrast MR brain imaging. The association between tumor histology (glioma/non-glioma) and grade and tumor volumes from imaging results will be assessed using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests and rank correlation., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare fluciclovine F18 (F18 fluciclovine) PET CT for tumor volume assessment compared to T2 fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) and T1 post contrast magnetic resonance (MR) brain imaging.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess changes in F18 fluciclovine defined disease with surgery and radiation.

II. To assess the relationship between post-radiation enhancing brain tissue and F18 fluciclovine activity.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the association between results from pathology and F18 fluciclovine, T2 FLAIR, and T1 post-contrast MR brain imaging.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive fluciclovine F18 intravenously (IV) and undergo 4 PET/CT scans over 10 minutes paired with standard of care MRI within 14 days prior to initial maximal tumor resection, within 7 days prior to initiation of radiation therapy, 28 days after the completion of radiation therapy, and 6 months after the completion of radiation therapy.

After completion of study, patients will be followed up at 3 and 6 months.