Phase I Study of BC008-1A Injection in Patients with Advanced Solid Tumors
The goal of this study is to learn if BC008-1A given 900mg or 1200mg intravenously once every 3 weeks is safe and effective to treat patients with advanced esophageal cancer or advanced non-small cell lung cancer. It will also learn about the safety and pharmacokinetics of BC008-1A.
Advanced Esophageal Cancers|Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
BIOLOGICAL: BC008-1A 900mg|BIOLOGICAL: BC008-1A 1200mg
Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate per RECIST1.1, Up to 2 years
Disease control rate (DCR), Defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved a best response of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) per RECIST 1.1., Up to 2 years|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax), about 4 months|Immunogenicity, Percentage of anti-drug antibody (ADA) and positive subjects., Up to 2 years|Adverse events, Incidence and severity of adverse events, Up to 2 years|Receptor occupancy, Receptor occupancy of TIGIT and PD-1 on peripheral CD3+, CD4+ and CD8+ T cells., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), The time interval from the first drug administration to progressive disease per RECIST 1.1 or death from any cause, Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), The time interval from the first drug administration to death due to any cause., Up to 2 years|Duration of response (DoR), The time interval from the first response (CR or PR) to progressive disease per RECIST 1.1 or death from any cause, Up to 2 years|Time to response (TTR), The time from the first drug administration to the first confirmation of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) per RECIST 1.1., Up to 2 years|Area under the curve (AUC), about 4 months
This is an open-label clinical study aims to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetic characteristics and preliminary efficacy of BC008-1A injection in subjects with advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and advanced non-small cell lung cancer (squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma). There are two cohorts. Cohort 1 selects patients with advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, and Cohort 2 selects subjects with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma) with a PD-L1 TPS (Tumor Proportion Score) of ≥1%.

Cohort 1: Two dose groups will be set up. Subjects with advanced esophageal cancer will enter the low-dose group (900mg) or the high-dose group (1200mg) in parallel. Each subject will only receive the experimental drug of one dose group and will not participate in the studies of the other dose group.

Cohort 2: Two dose groups will be set up. Subjects with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma) will enter the low-dose group (900mg) or the high-dose group (1200mg) in parallel. Each subject will only receive the experimental drug of one dose group and will not participate in the studies of the other dose group.

For both Cohort 1 and Cohort 2, BC008-1A injection will be administered once every 3 weeks, and 21 days will be regarded as one cycle. Subjects will continue to take the drug until disease progression occurs, or intolerable toxicity develops, or they are lost to follow-up, or withdraw their informed consent, or start a new anti-tumor treatment, or the investigator decides to withdraw them based on the subject's benefit situation.