Phase I/II Study of Vaccination With Antigen Loaded Dendritic Cells (DCs) in Hormone-Refractory Prostate Cancer
The main aim of this trial is to assess the response rate, the feasibility and toxicity of the treatment with antigen loaded Dendritic Cell Vaccination in Prostate Cancer patients. Furthermore we want to investigate biological responses by measuring markers of in-vivo and ex-vivo immunomodulation.
Cancer of the Prostate
BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic cell application
tolerability and toxicity and feasibility of this regimen, directly after vaccination (within 24 h)|response rate or PSA response in non measurable disease, The given time frame reflects the minimum of PSA values. From Patients receiving more than 6 DC vaccination every 4 weeks PSA was determined until the end of DC vaccination (longest was one and a half year)., Change from baseline in serum PSA at 6, 10 and 12 weeks|ex-vivo immunomodulation, Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) isolation and in-vitro restimulation. Measurement of antigen specific immune responses., before vaccination, after 6, 10, 12, and up to 85 weeks
pain relief, Changes in pain intensity will be assessed by summarizing score items 9 and 19 of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) quality. Additionally, analgesic consumption will be rated by a pain treatment score (PTS)., Change from baseline in pain relief at 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 weeks|Overall survival, From first date of treatment until dead
Dendritic cell (DC)-based immunotherapy is a promising approach to augment tumor antigen-specific T cell responses in cancer patients. However, tumor escape with down-regulation or complete loss of target antigens may limit the susceptibility of tumor cells to the immune attack. Concomitant generation of T cell responses against several immunodominant antigens may circumvent this potential drawback. In this phase I/II clinical trial, the investigators determined the immunostimulatory capacity of autologous DC pulsed with multiple T cell epitopes derived from four different prostate-specific antigens in patients with advanced hormone-refractory prostate cancer. Autologous DC of HLA-A\*0201-positive patients are loaded with antigenic peptides derived from prostate stem cell antigen, prostatic acid phosphatase, prostate-specific membrane antigen, and prostate-specific antigen. A strict quality control concerning the expression of surface markers and the migratory capacity of the DC secured optimal stimulatory capacity. DC were applied intradermally six times at biweekly intervals followed by monthly booster injections. Tolerability and PSA response will be investigated. Antigen-specific immune responses will be quantified.