A Study of Zolbetuximab (IMAB362) Plus CAPOX Compared With Placebo Plus CAPOX as First-line Treatment of Subjects With Claudin (CLDN) 18.2-positive, HER2-negative, Locally Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic Gastric or Gastroesophageal Junction (GEJ) Adenocarcinoma (GLOW).
Zolbetuximab is being studied in people with cancer in and around the stomach or where the food pipe (esophagus) joins the stomach, called GEJ cancer. Most people with this type of cancer have a protein called Claudin 18.2 in their tumor. Zolbetuximab is thought to work by attaching to the Claudin 18.2 protein in their tumor, which switches on the body's immune system to attack the tumor.

There is an unmet medical need to treat people with advanced stomach cancer or GEJ cancer. This study will give more information about how well zolbetuximab works when given with chemotherapy in adults with advanced stomach cancer or GEJ cancer. In this study, adults with advanced stomach cancer or GEJ cancer will either be given zolbetuximab with chemotherapy or a placebo with chemotherapy. A placebo looks like zolbetuximab but doesn't have any medicine in it. Zolbetuximab with chemotherapy has already been approved to treat stomach cancer and GEJ cancer in some countries. This study is being done in countries where zolbetuximab has not yet been approved for use. If zolbetuximab becomes approved for use in those countries taking part in this study, the people taking part in those countries will leave this study and receive licensed zolbetuximab.

The main aim(s) of the study is(are) to determine the efficacy of zolbetuximab combined with chemotherapy compared to a placebo combined with chemotherapy in treating adults with Claudin 18.2-positive, HER2-negative, locally advanced unresectable or metastatic gastric or GEJ adenocarcinoma.

Adults with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic stomach cancer or GEJ cancer can take part. Locally advanced means the cancer has spread to nearby tissue. Unresectable means the cancer cannot be removed by surgery. Metastatic means the cancer has spread to other parts of the body. A tumor sample of their cancer will also have the Claudin 18.2 protein. They may have been previously treated with certain standard therapies but have not been treated with chemotherapy for their cancer. People cannot take part if they need to take medicines to suppress their immune system, have blockages or bleeding in their gut, have specific uncontrollable cancers such as symptomatic or untreated cancers in the nervous system, or have a specific heart condition, or infections.

The study treatments are either zolbetuximab with chemotherapy or placebo with chemotherapy. People who take part will receive just one of the treatments by chance. Study treatment will be double-blinded. That means that the people in the study and the study doctors will not know who takes which of the study treatments. Study treatment will be given in cycles. The study treatment is given to people slowly through a tube into a vein. This is called an infusion. The chemotherapy is called CAPOX (capecitabine and oxaliplatin) and will be given as an infusion and also as tablets. People will have 1 infusion of either zolbetuximab or placebo together with oxaliplatin chemotherapy in 3-week (21-day) cycles. People will also take 1 tablet of capecitabine (chemotherapy) twice a day for the first 2 weeks (14 days) of each cycle. People may receive zolbetuximab or placebo until their cancer worsens, they cannot tolerate the treatment, or they need to start another cancer treatment. People will receive CAPOX for up to about 6 months (8 treatment cycles). After the 6 months, people may receive capecitabine chemotherapy only, until their cancer worsens, they cannot tolerate the study treatment, or they need to start another cancer treatment. People will visit the clinic on certain days during their treatment. The study doctors will check if people had any medical problems from zolbetuximab or the other study treatments. Also, people in the study will have health checks. On some visits, they will have scans to check for any changes in their cancer. People will have the option of giving a tumor sample after their study treatment has finished. People will visit the clinic within 7 days after they stop their study treatment. People will be asked about any medical problems and will have a health check. People who start treatment with licensed zolbetuximab will not need to attend the clinic for further visits and will receive standard of care health checks. People who continue study treatment will visit the clinic at 1 and 3 months after they stop their study treatment. They will continue to have scans every 9 or 12 weeks to check for any changes in their cancer. They will have telephone health checks every 3 months. The number of visits and checks done at each visit will depend on the health of each person and whether they completed their treatment or not.
Locally Advanced Unresectable Gastroesophageal Junction (GEJ) Adenocarcinoma or Cancer|Locally Advanced Unresectable Gastric Adenocarcinoma or Cancer|Metastatic Gastric Adenocarcinoma or Cancer|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction (GEJ) Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: zolbetuximab|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of radiological progressive disease (PD) (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1 by independent review committee \[IRC\]) or death from any cause, whichever was earliest. PD was defined as development of new, or progression of existing metastases to the primary cancer under the study. Kaplan-Meier estimates was used., From the date of randomization until 47 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause. Kaplan-Meier estimates was used., From the date of randomization untill 47 months|Time to Confirmed Deterioration (TTCD) Using Physical Functioning as Measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), TTCD: time from randomization to first clinically meaning full deterioration (CMFD) that was confirmed at the next scheduled visit.The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive), 9 symptom scales/items (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, general pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a global health status scale. Most items are scored 1 ("not at all") to 4 ("very much") except for the items contributing to the global health status which are scored 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). All raw domain scores are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher scores on symptoms indicate a worse health state. Clinically meaningful deterioration was defined if a participant's change from baseline (CFB) exceeded a pre-specified threshold (as per investigator's discretion) denoting a clinically meaningful change. Kaplan-Meier estimates was used., From the date of randomization untill 47 months|Time to Confirmed Deterioration (TTCD) Using Oesophago-gastric Questionnaire (OG25) on Abdominal Pain and Discomfort as Measured by EORTC QLQ-OG25 Plus STO22 Belching Subscale, TTCD:time from randomization to first CMFD confirmed at next scheduled visit.OG25 evaluated gastric \& gastroesophageal junction cancer-specific symptoms,had 25 items with 6 scales:dysphagia,eating restrictions,reflux,odynophagia,pain, discomfort,anxiety,and 10 single items:trouble with(taste, swallowing saliva, coughing, talking),eating in front of others,dry mouth,body image,choked when swallowing,weight loss and hair loss.STO22: gastric cancer quality of life questionnaire with 22 questions.For OG25 and STO22,items scored on(1:not at all; 2:a little, 3:quite a bit, 4:very much) and 1 question was "yes or no" for STO22.Linear transformation was used; score ranged from 0 to 100;higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms. An item from STO22 instrument related to belching was used with OG25. CMFD: if participant's CFB exceeded pre-specified threshold (per investigator's discretion) denoting a clinically meaningful change. Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates was used., From the date of randomization untill 47 months|Time to Confirmed Deterioration (TTCD) Using Global Health Status as Measured by EORTC QLQ-C30, TTCD: time from randomization to first CMFD that was confirmed at the next scheduled visit.The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive), 9 symptom scales/items (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, general pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a global health status scale. Most items are scored 1 ("not at all") to 4 ("very much") except for the items contributing to the global health status/QoL, which are scored 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). All raw domain scores are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher scores on symptoms indicate a worse health state. Clinically meaningful deterioration was defined if a participant's CFB exceeded a pre-specified threshold (as per investigator's discretion) denoting a clinically meaningful change. Kaplan-Meier estimates was used., From the date of randomization untill 47 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as was assessed by IRC per RECIST 1.1. CR was defined as complete resolution of all attributable clinical symptoms and physical findings. PR was defined as partial resolution of at Least some of the clinical symptoms and physical findings., From the date of randomization untill 47 months|Duration Of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the date of the first response (CR/PR) until the date of PD as assessed by IRC per RECIST 1.1 or date of death from any cause, whichever is earliest.CR was defined as complete resolution of all attributable clinical symptoms and physical findings. PR was defined as partial resolution of at Least some of the clinical symptoms and physical findings. PD was defined as development of new, or progression of existing metastases to the primary cancer under the study. Kaplan-Meier estimates was used., From first response (CR/PR) untill 47 months|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An Adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study drug, and which does not have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product.TEAE defined as an AE observed after starting administration of the study drug through 30 days after the last dose., From first dose untill 47 months|Number of Participant With Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, ECOG grades 0-5, where 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction; 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work; 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours; 3 = Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours; 4 = Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair and 5 = Dead., Baseline, cycle (C) 2 day (D) 1 through C40D1|Change From Baseline in Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) Measured by the EORTC-QLQ-C30 Questionnaire, The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional domain scales: physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive.It is a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive), 9 symptom scales/items (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, general pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a global health status scale. Most items are scored 1 ("not at all") to 4 ("very much") except for the items contributing to the global health status/QoL, which are scored 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). All raw domain scores are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher scores on symptoms indicate a worse health state., Baseline, on day (D)1 from cycle (C) 2 through C29, 30-day follow up, 90-day follow up|Change From Baseline in HRQoL Measured by the QLQ-OG25 Questionnaire Plus STO22 Belching Subscale Questionnaire, OG25 evaluated gastric \& gastroesophageal junction cancer-specific symptoms,had 25 items with 6 scales:dysphagia,eating restrictions,reflux,odynophagia,pain \& discomfort,anxiety,and 10 single items:trouble with(taste, swallowing saliva, coughing, talking),eating in front of others,dry mouth,body image,choked when swallowing,weight loss and hair loss.STO22: gastric cancer quality of life questionnaire with 22 questions.For OG25 and STO22,items scored on(1:not at all; 2:a little, 3:quite a bit, 4:very much) and 1 question was "yes or no" for STO22.Linear transformation was used; score ranged from 0 to 100;higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms. An item from STO22 instrument related to belching was used with OG25., Baseline, C2D1 through C29D1, 30-day follow up, 90-day follow up|Change From Baseline in HRQoL Measured by Global Pain (GP), The GP instrument is a single assessment of overall pain and participants were assessed in global pain according to the following response categories: 1= no pain (anymore), 2 = less pain, 3 = no change and 4 = more pain. Low pain scores are considered a better outcome than a high pain score., Baseline, C2D1 through C29D1, 30-day follow up, 90-day follow up|Change From Baseline in HRQoL Measured by the EuroQOL Five Dimensions Questionnaire 5L (EQ-5D-5L) Questionnaire, EQ-5D-5L is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcomes consisting of 6 items that cover 5 main domains (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression) and a general visual analog scale for health status.It was developed by the EuroQol Group for use as a generic, preference-based measure of health outcomes. Each dimension comprises 5 levels (no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, extreme problems). A unique EQ-5D-5L health state is defined by combining 1 level from each of the 5 dimensions. This questionnaire also records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated (0 = the worst health a participant can imagine to 100 = the best health a participant can imagine) visual analogue scale. Responses to the 5 items will also be converted to a weighted health state index (utility score) based on values derived from general population samples., Baseline, C2D1 through C29D1, 30-day follow up, 90-day follow up|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Zolbetuximab in Serum: Trough Concentration (Ctrough), Ctrough was defined as the predose concentration at the end of dosing interval., Predose on C2D1,C5D1,C9D1,C13D1,C17D1|Number of Anti-drug Antibody (ADA) Positive Participants, Immunogenicity will be measured by the number of participants that are ADA positive., Predose on C1D1,C2D1,C5D1,C9D1,C13D1,C17D1, 30-day follow up, 90-day Follow up
After the marketing approval in Japan on 26 Mar 2024, this study continued as "post marketing clinical study" in Japan. In the rest of the countries which participated in this study, this study continued as clinical study.