Anti-PD-1 and VEGF Bispecific Antibody AK112 in Combination With Chemotherapy in Patients With ES-SCLC
Phase Ib open label, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of anti-PD-1 and VEGF bispecific antibody (AK112) combined with chemotherapy in patients with ES-SCLC.
SCLC, Extensive Stage
DRUG: AK112|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Carboplatin
Incidence of Grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs), Frequency and severity of adverse events measured according to NCI Common Toxicity Criteria Adverse Event (CTCAE), version 5.0, Interval between the date of enrollment and the date of death from any cause, up to a maximum of 2 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is proportion of subjects with complete response(CR) or partial response(PR). Tumor responses will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. Patients with no tumor assessment after baseline will be classified as non-responders., Interval between the date of enrollment and the date of death from any cause, up to a maximum of 18 months.
Disease control rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of subjects with CR, PR, or SD (subjects achieving SD will be included in the DCR if they maintain SD for ≥8 weeks) based on RECIST V1.1, Interval between the date of enrollment and the date of death due to any cause , up to a maximum of approximately 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of first dosing till the first documentation of disease progression (per RECIST v1.1) assessed by the investigator or death due to any cause (whichever occurs first), Interval between the date of enrollment and the date of progressive disease, or death due to any cause (whichever occurs first), up to a maximum of 24 months.|Overall survival (OS), OS is the time from the date of randomization or first dosing date to death due to any cause., Interval between the date of enrollment and the date of death from any cause, up to a maximum of 24 months.
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive type of neuroendocrine tumor with the majority of patients (about 60-70%) being diagnosed with metastatic disease and with a median survival ranging from 7 to 12 months. Combination chemotherapy , namely a platinum and etoposide-based regimen, represents the cornerstone of treatment for extensive stage SCLC(ES-SCLC). Despite this the duration of response is short and nearly all patients develop disease relapse or progression. The recent approval of atezolizumab in combination with carboplatin and etoposide as first line in patients with ES- SCLC is surely a step forward in the understanding the molecular landscape and treatment of this complex tumor, but new therapeutic approaches need to be explored.This trial aims to assess the safety and efficacy of a new therapeutic strategy that combines to carboplatin and etoposide, and a new drug AK112.The treatment will start with an induction phase during which eligible patients will receive, by intravenous way, a combination of the above mentioned drugs according to a specific administration regimen. This phase will last about 12 weeks. Thereafter the treatment will proceed with a maintenence phase lasting for a maximum of 24 months during which the patients will receive only AK112, by intravenous way. Treatment will be discontnued in case of until the toxicity became intolerable, the investigator determined that there was no further clinical benefit (based on a combination of RECIST V1.1 imaging assessment and clinical status), 24 months of treatment was completed, or the study was withdrawn for other reasons. During the study period the patients will undergo to periodic visits and laboratory, radiologic assessments to monitor the efficacy and the safety of the ongoing treatment.