Identification of Treatment Concentrations of Defactinib or VS-6766 for the Treatment of Patients With Glioblastoma
This early phase I trial tests brain concentration level and safety of defactinib or VS-6766 for the treatment of patients with glioblastoma. Recently, two new drugs that seem to work together have been shown to have promising treatment effects in tissue culture and animal models of glioblastoma. Each inhibits a different glioblastoma growth pathway and when used together may create a larger effect on tumor growth than either alone. Growth pathway describes a series of chemical reactions in which a group of molecules in a cell work together to control cell growth. It is known that glioblastoma tumor cells can grow because of lack of regulation. Both Pyk2 and the closely related kinase (FAK) proteins help regulate tumor cell invasion, unless they are produced in large amounts (over expressed). Specifically, Raf and FAK/Pyk2 regulation of cell division is activated quite a bit more in gliomas compared to normal tissues. Recently developed inhibitors of Raf (VS-6766) and FAK (defactinib) which belong to a class of medications called kinase inhibitors, are aimed to bring their activity to proper levels and may stop tumor growth.
Glioblastoma|Recurrent Glioblastoma
DRUG: Avutometinib|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Defactinib
Concentration of defactinib that accumulates in the glioblastoma (GBM) and brain around tumor, Defactinib concentration will be measured in a sample of the glioblastoma, brain around the glioblastoma, and in a serum sample from each subject receiving Defactinib. Descriptive statistics, such as mean and standard deviation, will be generated with these results. Concentration will be compared between dose levels within study drug using two-sample t-tests or non-parametric equivalents such as Mann Whitney U tests., At time of surgery|Concentration of avutometinib (VS-6766) that accumulates in the GBM and brain around tumor, VS-6766 concentration will be measured in a sample of the glioblastoma, brain around the glioblastoma, and in a serum sample from each subject receiving VS-6766. Descriptive statistics, such as mean and standard deviation, will be generated with these results. Concentration will be compared between dose levels within study drug using two-sample t-tests or non-parametric equivalents such as Mann Whitney U tests., At time of surgery|Incidence of adverse events associated with defactinib, Will be assessed by quantification of the recognized side effects of this agent including fatigue, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, hyperbilirubinemia, decreased appetite, peripheral edema, dizziness, and headache and by monitoring for new or undescribed adverse events. Summary statistics will include frequencies and percentages of adverse events., Up to 2 weeks post surgery|Incidence of adverse events associated with VS-6766, Will be assessed by quantification of the recognized side effects of this agent including rash, creatine phosphokinase elevation, visual disturbances, hypoalbuminemia, and fatigue and by monitoring for new or undescribed adverse events. Summary statistics will include frequencies and percentages of adverse events., Up to 2 weeks post surgery
Pyk2 and FAK phosphorylation in tumor, brain around tumor, and serum, These results will be summarized with descriptive statistics. These results will be compared to current and historical control samples of glioblastoma (collected in our previous human GBM specimens' studies) and analyzed in parallel with study subject samples and run on one western blot membrane to reduce technique variation. The mean phosphorylation will be compared between groups using two-sample t-test or non-parametric equivalents such as Mann Whitney U tests. Dose levels will be compared to a historical control, both alone and combined., At time of surgery|MEK and Erk in tumor, brain around tumor, and serum, These results will be summarized with descriptive statistics. These results will be compared to current and historical control samples of glioblastoma (collected in our previous human GBM specimens' studies) and analyzed in parallel with study subject samples and run on one western blot membrane to reduce technique variation. Phosphorylation will be compared between dose levels within study drug using two-sample t-tests or non-parametric equivalents such as Mann Whitney U tests., At time of surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate (or characterize) the concentration of defactinib or avutometinib (VS-6766) that accumulates in the glioblastoma (GBM) and brain around tumor.

II. Assess the safety of the administration of a single oral dose of defactinib or VS-6766 in patients with glioblastoma.

III. Assess the inhibition of Pyk2/FAK or MEK, Erk signaling in tumor and brain around tumor.

IV. Assess the pharmacodynamics of defactinib or VS-6766 in patients with glioblastoma.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of defactinib and avutometinib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive 1 dose of defactinib orally (PO) while on study, prior to planned tumor resection.

ARM II: Patients receive 1 dose of avutometinib PO while on study, prior to planned tumor resection.

Patients undergo blood collection and donate resected tumor tissue while on study.