Adjuvant Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy Versus Radiotherapy in Early-stage Cervical Cancer Patients
To evaluate if adjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy is associated with a recurrence-free survival benefit in comparison with radiotherapy alone in selected intermediate risk cervical cancer after radical surgery.
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: adjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy|RADIATION: radiotherapy
5-year recurrence-free survival, From date of surgery until the date of first documented local-regional progression or distant metastasis (determined by CT or MRI scan and/or biopsy) or death (from any cause) assessed up to five years., 5 years
5-year overall survival, Determine the 5-year overall survival rate in early-stage cervical cancer patients with high risk factors, defined as time from the date of surgery to death of all cause at time of 5 years after operation., 5 years|Acute toxicity, Evaluate the treatment induced toxicity according to CTCAE 4.0 during the time of chemoradiotherapy or radiotherapy alone which starts from the first day of Endostar and lasts three months., 3 months|Quality of Life (QoL), Collect QoL data on early-stage cervical cancer patients with high risk factors. The data is measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3.0) according to investigator collection at the starting and ending time of the adjuvant treatment. EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. The core and disease-specific for cervix modules are selected to estimate treatment related influence on patients' life. The final score of the questionnaire is collected and analyzed according to detailed scoring procedures from manuals., 2 years
Adjuvant therapy for patients with cervical cancer (CC) with intermediate-risk factors remains controversial. According to result of GOG 92 trail, adjuvant radiotherapy significantly improved recurrence-free survival in early stage cervical cancer with intermediate risks (Sedlis criteria). However, significant heterogeneity exists in Sedlis criteria, high risk of relapse and death occurred in patients with (1) lympho-vascular space invasion(LVSI+) and deep 1/3 stromal invasion;(2) LVSI(+) and middle 1/3 stromal invasion, and tumor size≥4cm when compared with other factors. In addition, multiple studies have confirmed that (3)non-squamous histology is an independent prognostic factor in early stage cervical cancer, who might be benefited from adjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy. As a result, The objective of the trial is to evaluate if adjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy is associated with a recurrence-free survival benefit in comparison with radiotherapy alone in selected intermediate risk cervical cancer after radical surgery. The primary endpoint of the study is the recurrence-free survival from the day of randomization.