Cadonilimab Combined With Chemotherapy as First or Second Line Treatment in Recurrent or Metastatic Triple Negative Breast Cancer
The prognosis of recurrent and metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is poor, and chemotherapy is still the main treatment for TNBC. Some studies have shown that combination therapy of antibodies targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) significantly improves clinical benefit over PD-1 antibody alone. However, broad application of this combination has been limited by toxicities. Cadonilimab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 bispecific antibody targeting PD-1 and CTLA-4. It mutates to eliminate Fc receptor and complement-mediated cytotoxic effects. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Cadonilimab combined with chemotherapy as a first or second-line treatment of recurrent and metastatic TNBC. This study is a multicenter, single arm, phase II, non randomized, open label, Simon two-stage design. It is planned to enroll 27 late stage TNBC patients.
Triple-negative Breast Cancer|Cadonilimab
DRUG: Cadonilimab
Objective Response Rate, The ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects with confirmed CR or confirmed PR, based on RECIST Version 1.1., Up to 2 years
AE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment., From the time of informed consent signed through 90 days after the last dose of drug
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment with AK104 until the first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment with AK104 until death due to any cause., Up to 2 years|Disease control rate, The DCR is defined as the proportion of subjects with CR, PR, or SD (subjects achieving SD will be included in the DCR if they maintain SD for ≥8 weeks) based on RECIST Version 1.1., Up to 2 years
The prognosis of recurrent and metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is poor, and chemotherapy is still the main treatment for TNBC. Some studies have shown that combination therapy of antibodies targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) and programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) significantly improves clinical benefit over PD-1 antibody alone. However, broad application of this combination has been limited by toxicities. Cadonilimab is a humanized immunoglobulin G1 bispecific antibody targeting PD-1 and CTLA-4. It mutates to eliminate Fc receptor and complement-mediated cytotoxic effects. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Cadonilimab combined with chemotherapy as a first or second-line treatment of recurrent and metastatic TNBC. This study is a multicenter, single arm, phase II, non randomized, open label, Simon two-stage design. It is planned to enroll 27 late stage TNBC patients.