Different Endoscopic Gastric Cancer Risk Assessments
The Kimura-Takamoto classification established in Japan can observe the extent of gastric atrophy in real-time under endoscopy, and diffuse atrophy also indicates an increased risk of gastric cancer. Recent studies have found that the evaluation of intestinal metaplasia score (EGGIM score) of various stomach parts by electronic staining can well identify OLGIM III\\ IV patients. Although the Kimura-Takamoto classification and EGGIM score can evaluate the risk of gastric cancer in patients, only in cross-sectional studies, it is not clear the diagnostic value of risk assessment in population screening. Early gastric cancer has the characteristics of hidden lesions and a high rate of clinical missed diagnosis. Concentrating high-risk groups through risk scores is expected to guide endoscopic doctors to conduct a targeted careful examination. However, it is not clear whether Kimura-Takamoto classification and EGGIM score can improve the detection rate of early gastric cancer in clinical practice.
Gastric Cancer Screening
PROCEDURE: Kimura-Takemoto classification|PROCEDURE: EGGIM
Early gastric cancer detection rate, The detection rate of early gastric cancer, 36 months
The Kimura-Takamoto classification established in Japan can observe the extent of gastric atrophy in real-time under endoscopy, and diffuse atrophy also indicates an increased risk of gastric cancer. Recent studies have found that the evaluation of intestinal metaplasia score (EGGIM score) of various stomach parts by electronic staining can well identify OLGIM III\\ IV patients. Although the Kimura-Takamoto classification and EGGIM score can evaluate the risk of gastric cancer in patients, only in cross-sectional studies, it is not clear the diagnostic value of risk assessment in population screening. Early gastric cancer has the characteristics of hidden lesions and a high rate of clinical missed diagnosis. Concentrating high-risk groups through risk scores is expected to guide endoscopic doctors to conduct a targeted careful examination. However, it is not clear whether Kimura-Takamoto classification and EGGIM score can improve the detection rate of early gastric cancer in clinical practice.