Novel Combination Therapy in the Treatment of Relapsed and Refractory Aggressive B-Cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects new combinations of treatment will have this disease. New promising treatment strategies will be added to this study as they are available to be compared against the standard treatment.
Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Mesna|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: G-CSF|DRUG: Selinexor
Measure overall response rate, To determine the overall response rate (complete and partial response) to novel combination therapy in patients with relapsed and refractory aggressive B cell lymphoma, 2 years
Number and severity of adverse events, To evaluate the tolerability and toxicity of novel combinations. Adverse events will be monitored on an ongoing basis by the central office and their frequencies reported annually at investigators' meetings. Safety and tolerability will be reviewed in the first six patients assigned to ibrutinib plus R-GDP as part of a safety run-in. Ibrutinib dose will be reduced for subjects subsequently enrolled if necessary, 2 years|Transplantation rate, A non-inferiority analysis of transplantation rate will be conducted with 10% non-inferiority margin. The one-sided 80% asymptotic confidence limit of the difference in transplantation rate will be calculated between treatment and control arms., 2 years|Stem cell collection rate, Stem cell collection rate defined as collection of ≥ 2 x 106 CD34+ cells/kg., 2 years|Event free Survival Rate, • Event free survival (EFS) at one year defined as time from study entry to any treatment failure including disease progression, or discontinuation of treatment for any reason, 2 years|Overall Survival, 2 years
This research is being done to try to find new combinations of treatment that may be better for treating patients with this disease. It is not clear however if these treatments can offer better results than standard treatment.

The study uses a "pick the winner" design to facilitate efficient screening of novel combination treatment regimens and select those meeting pre-specified criteria for testing in the phase III setting. All novel treatment options will be compared against the standard treatment for this disease: rituximab plus gemcitabine, dexemthasone, and cisplatin (R-GDP).