Thrombin Generation Parameters and Bleeding in Patients Treated With Anticoagulants for Cancer Associated Thrombosis
Pulmonary embolism, the second leading cause of death in cancer patients, is effectively treated with anticoagulants. In patients with cancer-associated thrombosis (CAT), the use of anticoagulants is associated with 10 to 15% of bleeding in the first 6 months. Most of the guidelines propose to integrate the bleeding risk in the choice of therapies. Thrombin generation assay (TGA) reflects an overall hemostatic response and could be a useful biomarker. Proven on the thrombotic side in the CAT population, useful in the assessment of the bleeding risk of hemophiliac patients, the TGA is emerging as a tool. The investigators to measure TGA in cancer patients included prospectively, having recently developed a CAT and to evaluate the association between the measurement and the risk of hemorrhagic complication under anticoagulant during the first 6 month of treatment.
Cancer|Pulmonary Embolism|Thrombosis
BIOLOGICAL: Thrombin Generation Assay (TGA)
The measurement of the area under the curve ( endogenious thrombin potential) nMxmin, The measurment of the endogenious thrombin potential, during the first 6 months of treatment, during the first 6 months of treatment|the measurement of the lag time unit = seconds, the measurement of the lag time, during the first 6 months of treatment, during the first 6 months of treatment|the measurement of the peak height unit = nm, the measurement of the peak height during the first 6 months of treatment., during the first 6 months of treatment|the measurement of the time to peak unit = seconds, the mesearurement of the time to peak, during the first 6 months of treatment., during the first 6 months of treatment
Effect of adding TGT results on the performance of bleeding risk prediction scores, Effect of adding TGT results on the performance (via AUC) of bleeding risk prediction scores., Month 1; Month 6|Occurrence of clinically relevant bleeding between m1 and m6, based on the change in TGT, Occurrence of clinically relevant bleeding between m1 and m6, based on the change in TGT (between inclusion and m1), Month 1; Month 6|Occurrence of an event of interest under treatment, Occurrence of an event of interest under treatment (recurrence of CAT, death, clinically relevant bleeding event) during the 6 months of follow-up, according to the TGT assessment at inclusion., Month : 1 to 6
Pulmonary embolism, the second leading cause of death in cancer patients, is effectively treated with anticoagulants. In patients with cancer-associated thrombosis (CAT), the use of anticoagulants is associated with 10 to 15% of bleeding in the first 6 months. Most of the guidelines propose to integrate the bleeding risk in the choice of therapies. Existing models for predicting anticoagulant associated bleeding risk applied to the CAT patients are not very predictive (AUC\<0.60). Thrombin generation assay (TGA) reflects an overall hemostatic response and could be a useful biomarker. Proven on the thrombotic side in the CAT population, useful in the assessment of the bleeding risk of hemophiliac patients, the TGA is emerging as a tool. The investigators wish to measure TGA in cancer patients included prospectively, having recently developed a CAT and to evaluate the association between the measurement and the risk of hemorrhagic complication under anticoagulant during the first 6 month of treatment.