Pembrolizumab vs. Observation in People With Triple-negative Breast Cancer Who Had a Pathologic Complete Response After Chemotherapy Plus Pembrolizumab
The phase III trial compares the effect of pembrolizumab to observation for the treatment of patients with early-stage triple-negative breast cancer who achieved a pathologic complete response after preoperative chemotherapy in combination with pembrolizumab. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. This trial may help researchers determine if observation will result in the same risk of cancer coming back as pembrolizumab after surgery in triple-negative breast cancer patients who achieve pathologic complete response after preoperative chemotherapy with pembrolizumab.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Early Stage Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Patient Observation|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), Defined as the time from randomization to first invasive local, regional, or distant recurrence or death due to any cause. RFS will be compared between treatment arms using the hazard ratio (with 90% confidence interval and stratified log-rank test) from a stratified Cox model., Up to 10 years.
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Adverse events will be determined using the latest version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). The proportions of patients with a grade 3 or higher AE will be compared between the arms using a chi-square test. A similar analysis will be done to compare the grade 3 or higher irAE rates, Up to 27 weeks after registration|Overall survival, Defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. OS will be compared between treatment arms using the hazard ratio (and stratified log-rank test) from a stratified Cox model, Up to 10 years.|Locoregional recurrence incidence, Defined as the time from randomization to first invasive local or regional recurrence. The cumulative incidence of LRR will be compared between treatment arms using a log-rank test (and estimated using Kaplan-Meier curves)., Up to 10 years.|Radiation adverse events, Radiation adverse events include pneumonitis, hypothyroidism and dermatitis. Radiation AE event rates will be determined for patients who received radiation. The numerator is the number of patients with the radiation AE and the denominator is the number of patients who received radiation. The analysis of the radiation related adverse event rates will only include patients who received radiation treatment. The radiation AE rates will be compared between the two arms using a chi-square test., Up to 27 weeks after registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether observation results in a non-inferior recurrence-free survival (RFS) compared to adjuvant pembrolizumab in early-stage triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients who achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with pembrolizumab.

II. To compare quality of life (QOL) at approximately 27 weeks as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B) Trial Outcome Index between patients randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab versus observation. (Quality of Life) III. To assess the social value of de-escalation of adjuvant breast cancer immunotherapy at approximately 27 weeks and, by modeling, over a lifetime. (Value of Care)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether observation compared to adjuvant pembrolizumab impacts the following:

Ia. RFS by stage at presentation and by receipt of prior anthracycline therapy; Ib. Adverse event rate: difference in Grade 3 or higher adverse event rates overall and Grade 3 or higher immune-related adverse events (irAEs) rates; Ic. Overall Survival (OS); Id. Locoregional recurrence (LRR both isolated LRR as first events and LRR events simultaneous with DM); Ie. RFS, LRR, OS, adverse events, and QOL by age (=\< 45, 46-65, and \> 65), race, and ethnicity; If. Adverse events related to receipt of radiotherapy. II. To assess the value of de-escalation of breast cancer immunotherapy from the payer perspective at approximately 27 weeks and, by modelling, over a lifetime. (Value of Care) III. To compare patient out-of-pocket costs at approximately 27 weeks between patients randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab versus observation. (Value of Care) IV. To compare financial toxicity at approximately 27 weeks between patients randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab versus observation. (Value of Care) V. To compare work/productivity impairment at approximately 27 weeks between patients randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab versus observation. (Value of Care)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe trajectories of QOL over time among patients randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab versus (vs.) observation. (Quality of Life) II. To compare various QOL domains after approximately 27 weeks as assessed by the 5 subscales of the FACT-B Index between patients randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab versus observation. (Quality of Life) III. To compare self-reported symptomatic adverse events at approximately 27 weeks assessed by the patient reported outcome Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) between patients randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab versus observation. (Quality of Life) IV. To describe trajectories of financial toxicity and work/productivity impairment over time from baseline to approximately 27 weeks among patients randomized to adjuvant pembrolizumab versus observation. (Value of Care) V. To develop and assess a measure of value from the patient perspective at approximately 27 weeks. (Value of Care)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms after completing neoadjuvant chemotherapy in combination with pembrolizumab, followed by definitive breast surgery.

ARM I (PEMBROLIZUMAB): Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) on study. Patients also undergo tumor biopsy on study, and collection of blood on study and during follow-up.

ARM II (OBSERVATION): Patients undergo observation on study. Patients also undergo tumor biopsy on study, and collection of blood on study and during follow-up.