Olaparib and Onalespib in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors That Are Metastatic or Cannot Be Removed by Surgery or Recurrent Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, Primary Peritoneal, or Triple-Negative Breast Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of olaparib and onalespib when given together in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) or ovarian, fallopian tube, primary peritoneal, or triple-negative breast cancer that has come back (recurrent). Olaparib and onalespib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Metastatic High Grade Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent High Grade Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent High Grade Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Refractory Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Refractory Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Refractory Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Refractory Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Unresectable High Grade Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Onalespib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Olaparib Administered in Combination With Onalespib, MTD was determined by testing increasing doses of the combination of olaparib PO and onalespib IV within dose escalation cohorts consisting of 3 to 6 evaluable participants. MTD reflects the highest dose combination that did not cause a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) in \> 33% of participants. DLTs were defined based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0.

Enrollment to this study was suspended prior to completion of the dose escalation due to discontinuation of further development of onalespib. A true single MTD therefore could not be determined. The two dose levels included in this outcome measure represent the highest well-tolerated dose combinations (Dose Level 2 \[DL2\]: Olaparib 300 mg PO BID and Onalespib 40 mg/m\^2 IV; and Dose Level 2a \[DL2a\]: Olaparib 200 mg PO BID and Onalespib 80 mg/m\^2 IV)., Up to 35 days for each dose level cohort|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Onalespib Administered in Combination With Olaparib, MTD was determined by testing increasing doses of the combination of olaparib PO and onalespib IV within dose escalation cohorts consisting of 3 to 6 evaluable participants. MTD reflects the highest dose combination that did not cause a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) in \> 33% of participants. DLTs were defined based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 35 days for each dose level cohort
Number of Participants Who Experienced Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLTs were based on the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.5.0 and were defined as any grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity (excluding grade 3: fatigue; diarrhea, constipation, and nausea and/or vomiting controlled with supportive measured within 24 hours; hypophosphatemia; hyponatremia; hypomagnesemia; and rash that resolves to \< grade 3 within \< 5 days), grade 4 neutropenia of \> 7 day duration, febrile neutropenia, grade 4 thrombocytopenia or bleeding associated with grade 3 thrombocytopenia, requirement for repeated blood transfusion within 4-6 weeks, any other grade 4 hematologic toxicity, any study treatment-related death, any grade 3 or 4 event considered to be dose-limiting in the opinion of the investigator, and the inability to take 75% or more of the planned dose for olaparib and 4 out of 6 doses for onalespib within the DLT period due to treatment-related adverse events., Within Cycles 0 and 1 (up to 35 days).|Number of Participants Who Experienced Treatment-Related Toxicities, Treatment-related toxicities in this outcome include non-hematologic and hematologic adverse events that were either Grade 3+ or occurred in at least 10% of all treated participants, and were considered at least possibly related to olaparib and/or onalespib. Adverse events were graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.5.0., Up to 67 weeks|Number of Participants With Objective Responses by RECIST 1.1, Responses determined per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI, where Objective Response (OR) represents either a Complete Response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters)., Up to 63 weeks|Number of Participants Progression-Free for At Least 24 Weeks by RECIST 1.1, Responses determined per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI, where Progressive Disease (PD) represents (relative to baseline) at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, appearance of one or more new lesions, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The duration of progression-free status was defined as the interval from the date of enrollment to date of either PD or date of last disease assessment., Up to 24 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTDs) of olaparib and onalespib (AT13387) administered in combination in patients with advanced solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and other toxicities associated with olaparib and AT13387 administered in combination as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0.

II. To determine the recommended phase 2 doses (RP2D) of the combination of olaparib and AT13387.

III. To determine the plasma pharmacokinetics of olaparib and AT13387. IV. To document anti-tumor activity of the combination of olaparib and AT13387 as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and progression free survival (PFS). Although the clinical benefit of \[this/these\] drug(s) has not yet been established, the intent of offering this treatment is to provide a possible therapeutic benefit, and thus the patient will be carefully monitored for tumor response and symptom relief in addition to safety and tolerability.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7 (cycle 0). Beginning in cycle 1, patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-28 and onalespib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 3 months for up to 2 years.