Alpha-Lipoic Acid in Preventing Hearing Loss in Cancer Patients Undergoing Treatment With Cisplatin
RATIONALE: Alpha-lipoic acid may prevent or lessen hearing loss caused by cisplatin.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying the effectiveness of alpha-lipoic acid in preventing hearing loss in cancer patients undergoing treatment with cisplatin.
Ototoxicity|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor
DRUG: alpha-lipoic acid|BEHAVIORAL: Audiology|BIOLOGICAL: laboratory biomarker analysis|DRUG: Placebo
Ototoxicity Measurement, Any American Speech and Hearing Association (ASHA)-significant hearing loss in the Sensitive Region for Ototoxicity frequencies between baseline measurement and any follow-up measurement.

ASHA criteria are defined as

* 20 decibel (dB) increase at any test frequency,
* 10 dB increase at any two consecutive test frequencies, or loss of response where there was previously a response at any three test frequencies., Baseline measurement occurred prior to first cisplatin treatment session. Follow-up measurements occurred up to 3 months after last cisplatin treatment.
Malondialdehyde (MDA) Levels, Computed maximum increase relative to baseline for each subject = (max MDA during treatment) - baseline MDA level., Baseline measurement occurred prior to first cisplatin treatment session. Follow-up measurements occurred up to 3 months after last cisplatin treatment.|Total Amount of Prescribed Cisplatin Dose Administered, Maximum cumulative dose of cisplatin (mg/m\^2) administered during the course of chemotherapy., cisplatin treatment period between 10 weeks and up to 16 weeks.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

Determine the ability of alpha-lipoic acid supplementation to prevent or reduce the incidence and severity of hearing loss in cancer patients undergoing treatment with cisplatin.

Secondary

Determine if this drug improves the oxidative state, as measured by a malondialdehyde measurement of oxidative stress, thereby protecting the patient against ototoxic-induced hearing loss.

OUTLINE: This is a placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by cancer stage and institution. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive oral alpha-lipoic acid supplement once a day beginning 1 week before the start of cisplatin treatment and continuing for up to 1 month after the completion of cisplatin. During cisplatin treatment, patients discontinue supplement 1 day prior to the cisplatin treatment and resume daily supplements 2 days post treatment.

Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo supplement once a day beginning 1 week before the start of cisplatin and continuing for up to 1 month after the completion of cisplatin. During cisplatin treatment, patients discontinue supplement 1 day prior to the cisplatin treatment and resume daily supplements 2 days post treatment.

Hearing and ototoxicity are assessed at baseline, on each day of chemotherapy, and at 1 and 3 months post chemotherapy.

Blood samples are collected periodically to measure malondialdehyde and alpha-lipoic acid levels.

After completion of treatment with cisplatin, patients are followed for 3 months.