A Study Of Pembrolizumab In Combination With Trastuzumab-DM1
This research study is studying a combination of drugs as a possible treatment for metastatic breast cancer.

The interventions involved in this study are:

* Pembrolizumab
* Trastuzumab emtansine (also called T-DM1)
Breast Cancer
DRUG: T-DM1|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], The number and type of DLTs as defined in the protocol that occur during the first 21 days of treatment and all maximum grade of all treatment-related adverse events using CTCAE v4.0 will be used to identify a safe and tolerable dose, 21 days
Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of patients with complete or partial response evaluated by RECIST 1.1. Per RECIST 1.1: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 2 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression Free Survival, estimated via Kaplan-Meier method, is defined as the time from study registration to radiographic evidence of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Progression is measured using RECIST 1.1 criteria, defined as at least a 20% increase in size in target lesion and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and/or appearance of new lesions. Patients alive without disease progression are censored at the date of last disease evaluation., 2 years|Duration Of Response, The duration of response, estimated via Kaplan-Meier method, is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, or death due to any cause. Participants without events reported are censored at the last disease evaluation)., 2 years|Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate will be determined by looking at the number of subjects who have either a complete response, partial response, or stable disease for greater than or equal to 18 weeks, per RECIST 1.1, 18 weeks|Overall Survival Rate, OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., 5 years
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied. It also means that the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the combination of Pembrolizumab and T-DM1 for use in patients, including people with your type of cancer.

This study will determine what amount (or dose) of Pembrolizumab and of T-DM1 is safe for people to take and what effects, good or bad, this combination may have on participants and their disease.

The FDA has not approved Pembrolizumab for this specific disease but it has been approved in the United Sates for the treatment of other types of cancer.

The FDA has approved Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) as a treatment option for this type of breast cancer

The combination of Pembrolizumab and T-DM1 is investigational. It is thought that together these drugs to help get the immune system to attack tumor cells and kill cancer cells that have the HER2 protein. However, it is not known if giving the two study drugs at the same time will have a better anti-cancer effect than giving each treatment on its own.