Vaccine Therapy in Patients With Stages IIIB/IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Who Have Finished First-Line Chemotherapy
RATIONALE: Vaccines made from gene-modified tumor cells may help the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase I/II trial is studying the side effects of vaccine therapy and to see how well it works in treating patients with stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer who have finished first-line chemotherapy.
Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic B7.1/HLA-A1|OTHER: Placebo
Preliminary Safety Profile (Phase 1), This will include the number of patients experiencing toxicity over the course of treatment, characterized by type of toxicity and grade, and by the time of toxicity onset in relation to day of vaccination., Up to 13 weeks|Progression-free Survival (Phase 2), Date of randomization to the earliest date of documented progression.
Immune Response (CD8) in B7-vaccinated Participants as Compared to Controls. (Phase 2), Rate of immune response (CD8) in B-7 vaccinated participants reported for measurements taken immediately prior to vaccination (week 0) and throughout the two courses., About 13 weeks|Relationship of CD8 Response in B7-vaccinated Patients to Their Progression-free Survival.(Phase 2), Relationship of CD8 response in B7-vaccinated patients to their progression-free survival. Summarized by the median and range of follow up time for patients grouped according to disease status (progression/no progression) and vital status (died/alive at last contact)., From Week 1 of Study Therapy until Death or Withdrawal of Consent|Safety Profile (Phase 2), The rate of patients experiencing toxicity over the course of treatment will be characterized by type of toxicity and grade, and by the time of toxicity onset in relation to day of vaccination., About 13 weeks|Response to Second-line Chemotherapy After Disease Progression (Phase 2), The percentage of patients experiencing a clinical response (complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD)) on second-line chemotherapy will be characterized for B7-vaccinated patients and controls., From Week 1 of Study Therapy until Death or Withdrawal of Consent|Overall Survival (Phase 2), The length of time from either the date of diagnosis or the start of treatment for a disease, such as cancer, that study participants are still alive., Date of randomization to the recorded date of death|Correlative Immunological Studies in Study Participants (Phase 2), The time course of patients' adaptive immune response to B7 vaccination as compared to control vaccine will be characterized by their CD8, CD4, and NK response (measured by ELI-spots for interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), interleukin 4 (IL-4), and granzyme B secretion) measured prior to vaccination (i.e. at baseline) and over two courses of vaccination (measurements at week 7 and 13)., Baseline, Week 7 and Week 13
OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

* Phase I (single site \[University of Miami Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center\]): Patients receive allogeneic B7.1 and human leukocyte antigen-A1 (HLA-A1) transfected tumor cell vaccine intradermally (ID) in weeks 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 2 courses. If no more than 1 of 6 patients experience a probable or definitively treatment related adverse effect (i.e., grade 2 autoimmune or grade 3-4 of any type), patients proceed to the phase II portion of the study. If 2 or more (out of 6) patients experience treatment related adverse effects the study stops.
* Phase II (randomized): Patients are stratified according to study site (University of Miami Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center or Memorial Regional Hospital), type of prior first-line treatment (platinum and taxane vs platinum and gemcitabine), and presence of brain metastasis (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

  * Arm I: Patients receive allogeneic B7.1 and HLA-A1 transfected tumor cell vaccine ID in weeks 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 2 courses.
  * Arm II: Patients receive a placebo vaccine as in arm I. Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8), cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4), and natural killer cell (NK) response and peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) and T helper cell 1 (TH1)/T helper cell 2 (TH2) bias, including levels of interleukin (IL) IL-1β, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-13, Interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) via ELISA.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 4 years, and then once a year thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 66 patients (6 patients for phase I and 60 patients for phase II) will be accrued for this study.