Epacadostat and Pembrolizumab Before Surgery in Treating Participants With Stage II-III Esophageal or Gastroesophageal Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects of epacadostat and pembrolizumab and to see how well they work before surgery in treating participants with stage II-III esophageal or gastroesophageal cancer. Epacadostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of the tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving epacadostat and pembrolizumab before surgery may work better in treating participants with stage II-III esophageal or gastroesophageal cancer.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Epacadostat|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Pharmacodynamic Study
Temporal anti-tumor immune response defined as tumor infiltrating cytotoxic T-cells, circulating T-cells, T regulatory cells (Tregs), and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in tumor and blood samples, Patient demographics and baseline disease/prior treatment characteristics will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the gene expression profile in tissue/blood. Changes in these measures during and after treatment (when measured) will also be summarized by descriptive statistics and tables/plots. Various statistical analyses will be used to explore the association between these gene expression measures (at different time points and the changes over time) with clinical outcomes. For the exploratory correlation of these endpoints with response, analyses comparing groups of participants defined by response may be conducted by two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test., Baseline to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.0, All participants evaluable for toxicity will be included in the toxicity analysis. Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 8 weeks
Pathological complete response (CR), Will be defined as no residual cancer cells, including lymph nodes under pathologic examination of the surgically resected specimen and/or a Tumor Regression Score of 0 by the College of American Pathologists (CAP) Cancer Protocol for Esophageal Carcinoma. Pathological response will be determined per CAP Cancer Protocols and will utilize a modified Ryan scheme. For pathological CR, all participants evaluable for response will be included in the analysis. Pathological CR rate will be estimated by the proportion of participants achieving pathological CR along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 3 years|Clinical complete response, Defined as no radiographic evidence of disease of positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) or CT imaging. For clinical CR, all participants evaluable for response will be included in the analysis. Clinical CR rate will be estimated by the proportion of participants achieving clinical CR along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events per CTCAE v 4.0, All participants evaluable for toxicity will be included in the toxicity analysis. Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 3 years|Disease free survival (DFS), DFS will be determined using the Kaplan-Meier method., From start of neoadjuvant therapy up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be determined using the Kaplan-Meier method., From start of neoadjuvant therapy up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish that the combination of epacadostat and pembrolizumab will lead to an increase in tumor infiltrating cytotoxic T-cells and circulating cytotoxic T cells and a reduction in immunosuppressive Tregs and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in esophageal/gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) tumors that can arise after treatment with neoadjuvant chemoradiation.

II. To assess safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab and epacadostat (immunotherapy) in this patient population.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate pathologic complete response rate (path CR) and correlate with tumor T-cell response.

II. To evaluate complete clinical response rate (clinical CR) and subsequent avoidance of esophagectomy and correlate with tumor T-cell response.

III. To evaluate toxicities with the combination of pembrolizumab and epacadostat in this treatment setting.

IV. To evaluate disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in this treatment population.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure changes in whole genome serum micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA) signatures before and after protocol therapy and correlate with tumor/immune/stromal cell miRNA expression profiling determined by deep sequencing.

II. To assess the role of circulating miR-23a as serum biomarker given its role as an oncomir in esophagastric cancer and reporting in the literature of suppressing tumor cytotoxic T cells in preclinical models.

III. To correlate diversity in the gut microbiome with path CR and clinical CR after treatment with pembrolizumab and epacadostat.

IV. To measure serial plasma kynurenine/tryptophan ratio levels as a pharmacodynamic marker of increased IDO1 activity and response.

V. Association of PD-L1 expression, microsatellite stability and/or IDO1 expression and pathological complete response (pCR) rate.

OUTLINE:

Starting 14 days after completion of standard of care chemoradiotherapy, participants receive epacadostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) during weeks 3-8 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of weeks 3 and 6 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at one month and then every 3 months in year 1, every 4 months in year 2, and every 6 months in year 3.