Nutrition Education Program for Cancer Patients Receiving Radiotherapy
Using randomized control study, explore the effect of novel nutrition education program on the nutrition status and life quality of cancer patients receiving radiotherapy
Radiotherapy Side Effect|Nutrition Related Cancer
PROCEDURE: novel nutrition program
risk of malnutrition, Nutrition Risk Screening 2002 is used to assess the risk of malnutrition., Week 0, 12|BMI, Body mass index is a measure of body fat based on height and weight that applies to adult men and women. It equals to weight divided by height square., Week 0, 12|albumin, level of serum albumin, Week 0, 12|Quality of Life (QOL), The QOL was measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment quality of life version 3 questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) simplified Chinese version. It contains five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), three symptoms scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea and vomiting), a global health scale, a number of single items assessing additional symptoms commonly reported by cancer patients (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, and diarrhea) and financial impact of the disease. For most items, four response categories from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much) are employed; two items (overall health, overall quality of life) have response categories ranging from 1 to 7. A high scale score represents a higher response level. Thus a high score for a functional scale, the global health status or overall QOL represents a high or healthy status or a high QOL; however, a high score for the symptom scales represents a high level of symptom., Week 0, 12
physical function status, Using Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group to assess the physical function., Week 0, 12|Knowledge-Attitude-Practice, Knowledge Scale composes of 10 questions and 10 scores for each question. Attitude and Practice Scale have 5 questions. Each question is rated as A、B、C. A represents 20 score and B is 10 score., Week 0, 12
Weight loss is common among cancer patients, and can be attributed to many causes, including mucositis, inability to ingest or absorb adequate calories because of a problem with the alimentary tract, loss of appetite, and metabolic aberrations. Unintentional weight loss may be associated with decreased quality of life (QOL) and a poorer prognosis. Furthermore, for patients who are already in a catabolic state, the increased metabolic demands associated with anticancer treatment (particularly surgery) further worsen the problem. The novel nutrition program might improve the nutrition status and QOL in cancer patients receiving radiotherapy.