Weekly Carboplatin, Paclitaxel and Cetuximab Treatment for Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic SCCHN
This is a non-randomized, open-label phase II trial of 38 patients with recurrent or metastatic SCCHN. Patients must have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0-1 with good organ function and will be treated with six weekly cycles of carboplatin, paclitaxel and cetuximab. Following assessment of response, the treating physician at their discretion may continue to treat with weekly cetuximab as maintenance until disease progression. The study is designed to evaluate whether this regimen improves median overall survival (OS) as compared to an historical control population treated with a platinum plus 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). There is currently no agreed upon first line therapy for recurrent or metastatic SCCHN; regimen options are highly toxic, inconvenient and resource intensive. Our study regimen has been used extensively for induction therapy and off-protocol in palliative care, but treatment outcomes have yet to be defined by a clinical trial.
Head and Neck Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
Median Overall Survival, Overall survival after treatment with weekly carboplatin, paclitaxel and cetuximab for 6 weeks with or without the addition of maintenance weekly cetuximab is defined as the time from D1 of treatment under this protocol until death as a result of any cause., 36 months
Median Progression Free Survival, Progression events will be defined per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions Progression free survival after treatment with weekly carboplatin, paclitaxel and cetuximab for 6 weeks with or without the addition of maintenance weekly cetuximab is defined as the time from Day 1 of treatment until progression or death as a result of any cause., 36 months|Overall Response Rate by Participants, Number of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) after study treatment with weekly carboplatin, paclitaxel, and cetuximab for 6 weeks. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT scan: CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions; and PR as \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, 6 weeks|Incidence of Adverse Events, Grade 3 and 4 toxicities associated with this combined chemotherapy regimen as assessed by clinician assessment using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events,a descriptive terminology which can be utilized for Adverse Event (AE) reporting. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each AE term. Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care Activities of daily living (ADL). Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Describe patient reported symptoms associated with this regimen., 18 weeks|Head and Neck Quality of Life Assessments, Quality of life (QOL) as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-HN) questionnaire. The FACT-HN is the FACT-General (FACT-G) and a head and neck cancer specific, 12 item subscale given at baseline, at end of treatment, and at first follow-up visit. The FACT-G is a 27 item measure of general QOL assessing function in 4 domains: physical well-being (PWB), social-family well-being (SFWB), emotional well-being (EWB) and functional well-being (FWB). Items are rated by patients on a Likert scale from 0 to 4, with all subscales summed to give a total score with a range of 0-148 Higher scores represent better QOL., Baseline, End of treatment (EOT), First follow-up visit (8-12 weeks after EOT)
Because of their high response rates and low toxicity, the taxane, carboplatin, cetuximab regimens have frequently been adapted for use in the palliative setting. At UNC, we have observed high rates of response, leading to symptomatic benefit and low toxicity. Further, the regimen de-medicalizes the patient's life in several important ways. First, unlike with the EXTREME regimen, no PORT or 4 day infusion is required. Second, the regimen gives only six weeks of cytotoxic therapy. Finally, in our experience there is a low rate of severe toxicity and this, coupled with the high rate of response, may improve quality of life. We are not aware of any presented or published results on the use of this combination in palliative therapy; with the adoption of this regimen in clinical practice, documentation of its benefit via conduct of a clinical trial is needed.

We propose a study designed to detect an improvement in median OS versus a historical control. The control arm from the EXTREME trial achieved a median OS of 7.4 months. We hypothesize that a less toxic and more effective 3-drug regimen will result in improved median OS compared with the control arm from EXTREME (median 7.4 months). The toxicity associated with EXTREME is primarily attributable to the cisplatin and 5FU cytotoxic backbone as its toxicity has been consistent in multiple studies of both palliative therapy and induction therapy. If a 4-month improvement in OS is achieved with acceptable toxicity, we will consider this regimen worth of further study.

Secondary objectives will include characterizing changes in quality of life (QoL), symptoms and toxicities. Patients will be encouraged to co-enroll into the UNCseq protocol for further exploration of associations between genetic changes and clinical outcomes.