XB2001 in Combination With ONIVYDE + 5-FU/LV (+Folinic Acid) in Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This trial will include 2 portions (phase 1 and phase 2).

The first portion will be a Phase I, open label, dose escalation study to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of XB2001 as measured by Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), in combination with ONIVYDE + LV + 5-FU chemotherapy regimen in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer and to determine the recommended dose for the subsequent Phase 2 study.

The phase 2 portion will be implemented with the maximum established tolerated dose (MTD) of XB2001. The target enrollment in the phase 2 portion is 60 patients which will be randomized on a 1:1 basis to XB2001 plus ONIVYDE + LV + 5-FU (Arm 1) or placebo plus ONIVYDE + LV + 5-FU (Arm 2).
Pancreatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: XB2001 or Placebo
To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of XB2001 as measured by Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), in combination with ONIVYDE + LV + 5-FU chemotherapy regimen in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer., Primary Endpoint for Phase I portion, 44 days|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Safety endpoints will be evaluated for number of subjects by monitoring treatment emergent adverse events (TEAE) from clinical and laboratory reporting as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., 28 weeks
Progression Free Survival, Progression Free Survival will be evaluated following the formal database lock, or during an interim analysis, if applicable. PFS is defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death (any cause). Disease progression can include clinical progression, in which it is deemed by the investigator that the patient is coming off study due to the progression of underlying disease. Clinical or radiological (RECIST 1.1) progression will suffice as disease progression., From baseline until the date of first documented disease progression or date of death (from any cause), whichever come first, assessed up to 24 weeks.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) will be defined as the duration from the date of randomization until death. Subjects who are alive at the end of follow-up will be censored and survival time will be defined as time from randomization to censor date., From baseline until the date of death (from any cause) assessed up to 24 weeks.|Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate will be defined by the percent of patients in the study with a best overall response of CR or PR as assessed by the investigator (per RECIST 1.1)., Assessment every 8 weeks after initial response assessed up to 24 weeks.|Time to Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure is defined as a composite endpoint measuring time from randomization to discontinuation of treatment for any reason, including disease progression, treatment toxicity, or death., From baseline to treatment discontinuation (any cause) assessed up to 24 weeks|Percentage of Patients with Clinical Benefit Response, For Phase 2 portion only. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level. The CBR will be defined as a stabilization or positive (≥0 kg) change in lean body mass (LBM)-as assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scan, and improvement or no worsening (≥0 score point change) on any two of the three symptom scale measures (fatigue, pain, appetite) of EORTC QLQ-C30, Baseline to weeks 8, 16 and 24. CBR will be defined as a composite measure consisting of change in lean body mass (LBM) and change in quality of life|Quality of Life assessed through the cancer-specific European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life questionnaire (QLQ)-C30, Score ranges from 0 to 100. A high score represents a higher response level., Baseline to weeks 8, 16 and 24|Number of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), For Phase 2 portion only, From baseline (Visit 1) (post-infusion) until two weeks after the last infusion, assessed up to 24 weeks|Incidence of Grade 3-4 Diarrhea, For Phase 2 portion only, From Visit 1 (post-infusion) until two weeks after the last infusion, assessed up to 24 weeks|Duration of hospitalizations, For Phase 2 portion only, Baseline to weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24|Plasma/serum concentration of XB2001, Plasma/serum concentration of XB2001 will be measured throughout the study., At the specified timepoints in the study calendar assessed up to 24 weeks|Number of Treatment Cycles, For Phase 2 portion only, Throughout the study assessed up to 24 weeks|Change in (CD14+CD16+IL-1⍺+) triple positive tumor associated monocytes in peripheral blood, For Phase 2 portion only, Baseline to week 2 (post infusion at visit 2)
Results of a symptom questionnaire will be summarized by treatment arm at various post-infusion time points and compared over time, Score ranges from 12 to 48. A high score represents worse outcome., At various post-infusion time points assessed up to 22 weeks|Cardiotoxicity measured by the number of required ECGs and cardiotoxicity related events summarized by treatment arm and compared over time, Exploratory Endpoint (Phase 2 portion only), Compared over time, assessed up to 22 weeks
Study Title: A Phase I/II randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (1-BETTER) examining XB2001 (anti-IL-1⍺ True Human antibody) in combination with ONIVYDE + 5-FU/LV (+folinic acid) in advanced pancreatic cancer

Sponsor: XBiotech USA, Inc.

Study Chair: David Park, M.D.

Sample Size: Approximately 69 patients will be enrolled in the USA (at least 9 patients in the open label phase 1 portion and 60 patients in the randomized phase 2 portion)

Approximate Duration:

This trial will include 2 phases. The first portion will be a Phase I, open label, dose escalation study evaluating the safety, tolerability and establishing the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of XB2001 in at least nine patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma who are receiving ONIVYDE + Leucovorin l + d racemic + 5-Fluorouracil chemotherapy treatment. The duration for each patient in the Phase I portion will be 14 days (1 treatment cycle) in which they will be given one intravenous dose of XB2001 prior to receiving ONIVYDE + Leucovorin l + d racemic + 5-Fluorouracil chemotherapy treatment and assessed for Dose Limited Toxicities (DLT). The Phase II portion will be implemented following the completion of the Phase I portion and declaration of the MTD. The duration of subject participation in the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase II portion of the trial is approximately 28 weeks: including a screening period of up to 30 days, and 24-week treatment period. All study subjects can continue treatment with XB2001 in an open label extension, for as long as they are judged to be benefitting clinically and have had no unacceptable toxicities.