Pembrolizumab and Radiation Therapy in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This pilot clinical trial studies the side effects of pembrolizumab and radiation therapy in treating patients with stage I-III multiple myeloma that has come back after a period of improvement or that does not respond to treatment. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may block cancer growth in different ways by targeting certain cells. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Giving pembrolizumab and radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with stage I-III multiple myeloma.
ISS Stage I Plasma Cell Myeloma|ISS Stage II Plasma Cell Myeloma|ISS Stage III Plasma Cell Myeloma|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Greater than grade 2 toxicity will be assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Up to 12 months after study start
Number of Patients Achieving Any Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR according to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria., Up to 12 months after study start|Number of Participants Who Showed an Overall Response to Treatment Based on Baseline Changes on Positron Emission to Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography, Will be defined using International IMWG criteria., Up to 12 months after study start|Overall Survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product-limit method., From first treatment on course 1, day 1 to the earlier of date of death and/or last follow up, assessed up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety of concurrent single/low dose radiation therapy (radiotherapy) (8 Gy/1fx) in combination with pembrolizumab in relapsed or refractory myeloma patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize late toxicity (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] \> grade 2 toxicity at 6 and 12 months) and the effect of radiation in combination with pembrolizumab on systemic response rates using international myeloma working group (IMWG) uniform response criteria for multiple myeloma at 6 months and 12 months.

II. To assess changes in positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) as a result of combining pembrolizumab and radiotherapy at 6 months and 12 months.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo radiation therapy on day 1. Patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 2 or 3. Courses with pembrolizumab repeat every 3 weeks for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks thereafter.