Implantable Microdevice In Primary Brain Tumors
This pilot study will assess the safety and feasibility of using an implantable microdevice to measure local intratumor response to chemotherapy and other clinically relevant drugs in malignant brain tumors.

* The device involved in this study is called a microdevice.
* The drugs used in this study will only include drugs already used systemically for the treatment of gliomas.
Grade II Glioma|Grade III Glioma|Grade IV Glioma|Astrocytoma|Oligodendroglioma of Brain|Anaplastic Astrocytoma of Brain|Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Glioblastoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Microdevice
Success Rate of Microdevice Retrieval, Defined as the ability to retrieve the microdevice with sufficient tissue, of sufficient quality, for downstream histopathology analysis and interpretation of at least 50% of the microdevice reservoirs., 1 day|Number of Participants with Microdevice Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE Volume 5.0, Failure" from a safety standpoint will be considered any of the following:

* Any grade 3 or higher adverse events associated with microdevice placement or retrieval.
* Any combination of more than two grade 2 adverse events.

Failure" from a safety standpoint will be considered any of the following:, 1 Day
Measure Local Intratumor Response to Different Agents, two-tailed alpha level of 0.05 and report 95% confidence intervals with any point estimates, 1 Day|Correlate Tissue Genetic Features with Drug Response, Preliminary correlations between a specific genetic feature and drug response will be tested using the Chi-squared/Fisher's exact test for categorical variables or the T-test or Wilcoxon Rank-Sum test for continuous variables., 1 Day
This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining this study device in brain tumors.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the microdevice as a treatment for any disease.

Investigators are studying the safety of the microdevice and the effects of different drugs for each specific tumor. Brain tumors are known to be very different from each other and respond differently to different drugs. It would be very helpful to find out what drugs have the best chance of working in each specific tumor.

This research study involves drugs that are released by a small device, as small as the tip of a needle, that is inserted into the tumor at the time of surgery and is removed at the end of the surgery. The goal of this research study is to prove that microdevices can be used to find out which drugs have better effects on treating malignant brain tumors.

Participants will be in this research study for up to 30 days.

Expected enrollment is about 12 people.