Total Neoadjuvant Treatment With or Without Tislelizumab for Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer.
This prospective, multi-center, phase II randomized controlled trial will evaluate the actual benefit of adding immunotherapy with tislelizumab to the currently most effective approach against LARC, namely TNT. In this trial, we will harness several elements that may each potentially contribute to an overall high efficacy, at least in local outcomes: nCRT rather than SCRT, full length (8 cycles of mFOLFOX6) of consolidation chemotherapy, CIMT following nCRT (exploiting the upregulation of the immune response induced by the latter) and tislelizumab (with its theoretical advantage over other CPIs). In line with the changing treatment paradigms in LARC, in which high therapeutic efficacy translates into the possibility to avoid TME, the trial will have a novel primary endpoint of long-term unmaintained cCR, i.e. 3 year TME-free survival.
Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer (LARC)
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Total neoadjuvant therapy (TNT)
3-year total mesorectal excision (TME) free survival rates, 3-year TME free survival will be defined as the percentage of patients who are alive and did not undergo total mesorectal excision (TME) surgery, or did not have an event of loco-regional failure, metastatic recurrence or the appearance of a secondary CRC, at 36 months of follow up., Time from the date of registration to the date of TME or the first event of loco-regional failure, metastatic recurrence, the appearance of a secondary CRC or death from any cause. Assessed up to 36 months.
3 year TME-free survival rates of the CPS positive population, 3-year TME free survival will be defined as the percentage of patients with CPS positive tumors (PDL-1 combined positive score \>1%), who are alive and did not undergo total mesorectal excision (TME) surgery, or did not have an event of loco-regional failure, metastatic recurrence or the appearance of a secondary CRC, at 36 months of follow up., Time from the date of registration to the date of TME or the first event of loco-regional failure, metastatic recurrence, the appearance of a secondary CRC or death from any cause. Assessed up to 36 months.|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety), Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0", Time from screening until the end of study drug administration, Immune-related AEs will be recorded up to 90 days (+7 days) after the last dose of tislelizumab. Assessed up to 11 months.|Disease-free survival (DFS), DFS will be censored for patients who are alive and free of progression at the time of last follow-up. DFS rate will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, Time from the date of registration to the date of the first event of loco-regional failure, metastatic recurrence, the appearance of a secondary CRC or death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months|Overall survival (OS), Patients who are still alive when last traced will be censored at the date of last follow-up. OS rate will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., The time interval between the day of registration and the date of death of any cause, assessed up 60 months.|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of registartion to the date of the first objectively documented tumor progression, or death, whichever occurs first., The time from the date of registration to the date of the first objectively documented tumor progression, or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 60 months
This is a prospective, multi-center, double arm, open-label, phase II randomized (1:1) controlled trial aimed to determine the efficacy and safety of TNT with or without tislelizumab in patients with primary, histologically proven LARC. All subjects will undergo a screening process, based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria listed below. All subjects confirmed to be eligible will be randomized (1:1) into one of the two study arms, using an eCRF software. Patients in the investigational arm will be treated with 6 weeks of capecitabine-based CRT followed 4 weeks later by 16 weeks of CIMT with tislelizumab and mFOLFOX6, both given Q2W. Patients in the control arm will be treated with 6 weeks of capecitabine-based CRT followed 4 weeks later by 16 weeks of chemotherapy with mFOLFOX6, without tislelizumab, Q2W. Patients in both arms will be re-staged 8 weeks (+/-14 days) after the completion of therapy. Patients who will achieve cCR/near cCR will be closely followed by WW, and will undergo TME at any sign of local tumor regrowth. Patients in both arms with residual tumor, will undergo immediate TME. All patients will be followed according to current NCCN guidelines.The primary aim of the trial is to demonstrate that an approach of adding tislelizumab to the chemotherapy phase of the neoadjuvant treatment will increase the 3 year TME-free survival rate by \>20%, from 50% (based on the 53% 3 year TME-free survival rate in the OPRA trial) to 70% in patients with LARC.