Phase II Study of Cabazitaxel-XRP6258 in Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide and in the United States. The majority of lung cancers are non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The majority of NSCLC cases are advanced at the time of diagnosis. Chemotherapy has improved overall survival but remains limited at \< 12 months median overall survival. New approaches are needed for second line chemotherapy treatment. Cabazitaxel-XRP6258 has shown increased overall survival in metastatic prostate cancer and it is hopeful it can do the same in advanced NSCLC.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)|Stage IV NSCLC|Metastatic NSCLC
DRUG: Cabazitaxel-XRP6258 (3-week cycle)|DRUG: Cabazitaxel-XRP6258 (5-week cycle)
Objective Response Rate, The objective response is defined as the percentage of patients that achieve a complete and/or partial response according to The Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1)., Baseline up to 28 months
Progression Free Survival, Progression Free Survival is defined from the initiation of treatment until radiological-clinical evidence of progression according to the RECIST (v 1.1)., Baseline up to 28 months|Number of Patients With Any Graded Adverse Event, Safety will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (Version 4.0) and all adverse events will be recorded prior to each treatment regimen., Baseline up to 28 months|Overall Survival, Assessment will be made in subjects with Stage IV NSCLC who receive Cabazitaxel-SRP6258 after progressing with first line platinum-based chemotherapy., 28 months
A substantial number of patients with lung cancer progress after first line treatment and require second line chemotherapy. Lung cancer appears to account for 40-50% of all known brain metastasis. The incidence of brain metastases among lung cancer patients ranges from 16-20%. Chemotherapy has had limited utility due to problems crossing the blood brain barrier.

Currently there are three drugs approved by the FDA for second line treatment of NSCLC but each has distinct toxicities. Cabazitaxel-XRP6258 is a potent novel taxane with enhanced activity against an increased number of cell lines including lung, prostate, colon, pancreas, head and neck, kidney, gastric, glioblastoma, and melanoma. It also has the ability to cross the blood brain barrier. Cabazitaxel-XRP6258 was found to have an improved antiproliferative activity than other chemotherapy agents against insensitive cell lines. The Phase I studies of Cabazitaxel-SRP6258 have determined dosage and schedule recommendations in advanced NSCLC patients to be utilized for a Phase II multicenter study.

Subjects will be placed on one of two schedules (A or B) each with a specified dosage and administration schedule. All subjects will be followed for survival/progression after every 2 cycles of therapy with imaging studies. A two stage design will be used for each of the two schedules. Fourteen subjects will be accrued for each schedule in the first stage with possible accrual of an additional 34 subjects per schedule depending upon the first stage results.