Early Ageing During Therapy in AYA Cancer Patients
Longitudinal cohort study; measurements before start of systemic therapy and one year later.
Cancer|Leukemia|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Testicular Cancer|Osteosarcoma|Ewing Sarcoma|Breast Cancer|Cervical Cancer
PROCEDURE: Blood sampling
Change in senescence marker P16, determine change in senescence marker P16 between start of systemic therapy and one year later., at baseline and 1 year after start systemic therapy
Changes in SASPs and vascular markers, Determine changes in SASPs and vascular markers, at baseline and 1 year after start systemic therapy|Prevalence of classical cardiovascular risk factors (smoking, lipids, BMI, glucose), Determine prevalence of classical cardiovascular risk factors (lipids, BMI, glucose), at baseline and 1 year after start systemic therapy|Association between treatment type and change in senescence marker P16, Determine association between treatment type and change in senescence marker P16, at baseline and 1 year after start systemic therapy|Association between age and change in senescence marker P16, Determine association between age and change in senescence marker P16, at baseline and 1 year after start systemic therapy|Associations between senescence, inflammation, and cardiovascular risk factors, Determine associations between senescence, inflammation, and cardiovascular risk factors, at baseline and 1 year after start systemic therapy
Rationale:

Compared with survivors of childhood cancer, there is sparse knowledge about the long-term morbidity and mortality of adolescent and young adult (AYA) cancer patients, who are diagnosed at age 18-39 and have an 80% chance to survive. Following cancer treatment, many cancer survivors, including those at AYA age, have an increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Early ageing has been described in paediatric and certain adult cancer survivor populations. One of the responsible mechanisms behind biological ageing is cellular senescence, characterized by a stable arrest of the cell cycle which occurs in response to stress and damage. In all organisms the number of senescent cells increases with age and senescence has been associated with age-related diseases, like atherosclerosis and Alzheimer. Early ageing as a result of intensive cancer treatment with systemic therapy and radiation may result in early cardiovascular disease. However, information about senescence, early vascular ageing and related patient and tumour characteristics is missing for AYAs.

Objective:

to determine markers related to early ageing and senescence in AYA cancer patients before and after systemic therapy, in order to assess treatment-related early vascular ageing and associated tumour and patient characteristics.

Study design:

Longitudinal cohort study; measurements before start of systemic therapy and one year later.

Study population:

Patients aged 18-39 years, with a first histological and/or cytological diagnosis of a haematological or solid malignancy, scheduled to start systemic therapy with curative intent.

Main study parameters/endpoints:

Primary endpoint is change in senescence marker P16 between start of systemic therapy and one year later. Secondary endpoints are: changes in senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) and vascular markers; prevalence of classical cardiovascular risk factors (smoking, lipids, body mass index (BMI), glucose); tumour (treatment) and patient (age, sex, pre-existent cardiometabolic status) factors related to the changes in senescence, SASP and cardiovascular risk factors.

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: Study measurements will be performed twice and consist of blood withdrawal and physical examination (weight, height, waist-hip ratio, and blood pressure).