A Phase 1 Study of Alisertib Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors Including Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer Receiving a Standard Docetaxel Regimen
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of alisertib in combination with docetaxel as a treatment for participants with advanced solid tumors, including castration-resistant prostate cancer, who were deemed by the investigator to be medically appropriate candidates for docetaxel therapy.
Advanced Solid Tumors|Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
DRUG: Alisertib|DRUG: Docetaxel
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE is considered any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. Preexisting conditions that worsened during the study were reported as adverse events. A SAE is any experience that suggests a significant hazard, contraindication, side effect or precaution that: results in death, is life-threatening, required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is medically significant., From enrollment through 30 days after the last dose of study drug (approximately up to 77 months)
Cmax: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration for Docetaxel, Day 1 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose in Cycles 1 and 2|AUC(Last): Area Under the Plasma Concentration Curve From Time 0 to the Time of the Last Quantifiable Concentration for Docetaxel, Day 1 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose in Cycles 1 and 2|AUC∞: Area Under the Plasma Concentration Curve From Time 0 to Infinity for Docetaxel, Day 1 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose in Cycles 1 and 2|Terminal Phase Elimination Half-life (T1/2) for Docetaxel, Day 1 pre-dose and at multiple time points (up to 48 hours) post-dose in Cycles 1 and 2|Cmax: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration for Alisertib, Prior to dosing on Day 1 and Day 5 or 7 and at multiple time points (up to 12 hours) post-dose in Cycle 1|Tmax: Time to Reach the Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) for Alisertib, Prior to dosing on Day 1 and Day 5 or 7 and at multiple time points (up to 12 hours) post-dose in Cycle 1|AUCτ: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 to Day 7 Over the Dosing Interval for Alisertib, Prior to dosing on Day 1 and Day 5 or 7 and at multiple time points (up to 12 hours) post-dose in Cycle 1|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Assessed for Overall Participant Population, ORR is defined as percentage of participants who achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) v 1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions in reference to Baseline. RECIST-Evaluable Population is subset of safety population who had measurable disease by RECIST v 1.1 at baseline and had at least 1 post baseline response. prostate specific antigen (PSA)-Evaluable Population is subset of the safety population who had a baseline PSA reference value (\>5 ng/mL) and at least 12 weeks post-baseline PSA assessment for participants with no decline from baseline, or PSA progression within 12 weeks of treatment for participants with PSA decline from baseline., Baseline up to Cycle 36 (21-day cycles) until disease progression, death or EOT (approximately up to 24.8 months)|Overall Response Rate for Prostate Cancer Participants, ORR is defined as percentage of participants who achieved CR or PR as assessed by either RECIST v 1.1 or PSA response by prostate cancer working group 2 (PCWG2) criteria. According to RECIST v 1.1, CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and (if applicable) normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: ≥30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. PSA response by PCWG2 is defined as PSA at least 50% decrease in PSA value from baseline for 2 consecutive evaluations. PCWG2 defines PSA progression as the date that a 25% or greater increase and an absolute increase of 2 ng/mL or more from the nadir is documented, which is confirmed by a second value obtained 3 or more weeks later., Baseline up to Cycle 36 (21-day cycles) until disease progression, death or EOT (approximately up to 24.8 months)|Best Overall Response Rate Assessed by RECIST Criteria, Best response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with CR, PR, CR+PR, stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD) as assessed by RECIST criteria 1.1 for target lesions and assessed by CT, PET or MRI. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., Baseline up to Cycle 36 (21-day cycles) until disease progression, death or EOT (approximately up to 24.8 months)|Best Overall Response Rate Assessed by PSA Response by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) Criteria, Best Response Assessed by PSA Response by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) Criteria PSA response is defined as at least 50% decrease in PSA value from baseline for 2 consecutive evaluations., Baseline up to Cycle 36 (21-day cycles) until disease progression, death or EOT (approximately up to 24.8 months)|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a response to the date of first documented progressive disease (PD), or censored at last SD or better., Baseline up to Cycle 36 (21-day cycles) until disease progression, death or EOT (approximately up to 24.8 months)|Duration of Stable Disease (SD), Duration of SD is defined as the time from first dose to first PD, or censored at last SD or better., Baseline up to Cycle 36 (21-day cycles) until disease progression, death or EOT (approximately up to 24.8 months)
The drug being tested in this study is called alisertib (MLN8237). Alisertib is being tested to treat people who have advanced solid tumors including castration-resistant prostate cancer.

The study enrolled approximately 41 patients. Participants were enrolled to receive:

• Alisertib 10-40 mg + docetaxel 60-75 mg/m\^2

All participants will receive alisertib (ECT) in dose escalating cohorts, orally, twice daily for 7 days followed by 14-day rest period in Cycle 1, 3 and onwards (21-day cycle) and orally twice daily from Day 3 to Day 7 followed by 14 day rest period in Cycle 2 \[dose held for pharmacokinetic (PK) collection\] along with docetaxel 75 mg/m\^2, intravenous (IV) infusion on Day 1 of each cycle for maximum of 12 months, or until the occurrence of progressive disease (PD), unmanageable AEs or withdrawal of consent.

This multi-center trial is conducted in United States. The overall time to participate in this study was until there is evidence of disease progression or unacceptable treatment-related toxicity. Participants made multiple visits to the clinic, and were contacted every 12 weeks for up to 25.8 months after last dose of study drug for a follow-up assessment.