MRI Before Biopsy in Diagnosing Patients With Prostate Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies how well magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) before biopsy works in diagnosing patients with prostate cancer. MRI is a procedure in which radio waves and a powerful magnet linked to a computer are used to create detailed pictures of areas inside the body. This diagnostic procedure may aid in identifying lesions in the prostate which may have cancer. The lesions can then be targeted during the prostate biopsy to improve the accuracy of identifying prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: magnetic resonance imaging|PROCEDURE: prostate biopsy
Increased detection of clinically significant prostate cancer, Percent increase of patients with positive prostate cancer biopsies detected with pelvic MRI quick scan from the anticipated detection rate of 40%, Up to 1 year
Detection of clinically significant prostate cancer using 3D T2 SPACE, Number of patients with positive prostate cancer detection using 3D T2 SPACE, Up to 1 year|Detection of clinically significant prostate cancer using 3D T2 HASTE, Number of patients with positive prostate cancer detection using 3D T2 HASTE, Up to 1 year
Pathology specimen correlation with MRI findings, Statistical correlation of MRI findings with final pathology specimens in those patients who elect to be treated with radical prostatectomy for treatment of their biopsy detected prostate cancer with 0 showing no correlation and 1 showing perfect correlation between findings., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identification of one of more lesions suspicious for prostate cancer using a novel MRI protocol, not identified by transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) alone and to determine if the lesions identified by MRI demonstrate clinically significant prostate cancer based on pathologic findings (ie. Gleason \>= 7 or percentage of core involved with cancer \> 50%).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Average time for MRI scan per patient. II. Correlation of lesions on MRI to radical prostatectomy specimens. III. To determine whether MRI 3 dimensional (3D) T2 half-Fourier acquired single turbo spin-echo (HASTE) or sampling perfection with application optimized contrast using different flip angle evolutions (SPACE) protocols provide improved rates of prostate cancer detection.

IV. Yield of additional clinically significant prostate cancer diagnoses based on MRI targeted lesions on biopsy.

V. Rate of benign pathology identified by MRI (i.e. false positives). VI. To compare costs associated with the use of MRI over TRUS biopsy alone.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo pelvic MRI. Within 1-2 weeks, patients undergo scheduled prostate biopsy.