Surveillance of Association of Immune Status and Prognosis of CNS Germ Cell Tumor Survivors
Platinum-based chemotherapy, alternating at 21-days intervals with cycles of ifosfamide, cisplatin, and etoposide (ICE) and subsequently received radiotherapy were considered as standard treatment for intracranial germ cell tumors. However, whether reliable clinical data can quantify the damage degree of immunologic function caused by chemotherapy and radiotherapy is still unknown. This project regards the level of lymphocyte and immunocyte in peripheral blood as a quantitative index to reflect the dynamic change of the immunologic function of patients with CNS germ cell tumors before and after chemoradiotherapy treatment. Meanwhile, the investigators will also investigate the relationship between the level of lymphocyte and immunocyte in peripheral blood and the response rate of therapy.This study is designed to prospectively analyze the dynamic changes of immune status, prognosis and society function after standard treatment in patients with intracranial germ cell tumor.
Intracranial Germ Cell Tumor|Intracranial Germ Cell CNS Tumor, Childhood|Surgery
Association between level of immune function and overall survival in patients with intracranial germ cell tumors., Patients with intracranial germ cell tumors will be followed, prospectively from the time of discharge using review of the electronic medical record and as local guidance permits, phone calls at 3 and 6 months. The investigators will determine the associations between level of immune function after anti-tumor treatment and the objective remission rate and survival outcomes., 6 months
Immune status influences the reaction of anti-tumor and health condition of intracranial germ cell tumor patients. Peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid lymphocytes subsets, cytokines reflects those and be measured. Therefore, we designed the study to estimate patients health condition and survival outcomes in order to provides diversified assessment methods.

Peripheral blood will be collected from patients who will undergo surgery and/or neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemoradiotherapy. The setting time is before chemoradiotherapy, finishing chemoradiotherapy, pre-operation, postoperative day 1, day 3, day 5, and day 7. These blood samples will be used for detection and analysis in lymphocyte and immunocyte by flow cytometry.