The Tracking Molecular Evolution for NSCLC (T-MENC) Study
Tumor genomic clonal evolution assessed with liquid biopsy of stage IB,II and IIIA non-small cell lung cancer patients after getting radical resection. Plasma circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) analysis detects molecule residual disease and predicts recurrence in patients. The concordance of the relative abundance of mutations in plasma ctDNA with cancer recurrence.
Lung Neoplasms|Lung Cancer|Nonsmall Cell Lung Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of Lung
Tumor genomic clonal evolution assessed with liquid biopsy of stage IB,II and IIIA non-small cell lung cancer patients after getting radical resection., The tumor molecular clones and the frequency of gene mutations from 1021 tumor related genes will be detected by next-generation sequencing, which will be matched with the CT scanning., From assignment of the first subject to the time point when tumor recrudescence or 2 years after radical resection. The last participant will be recruited before June 30,2021.|The concordance of the plasma ctDNA detection status with Progress Free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS) after radical resection or/and under adjuvant therapy., Plasma circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) analysis detects molecule residual disease and predicts recurrence in patients. All the patients will receive biopsy genotype assay and ctDNA liquid biopsy., From assignment of the first subject to the time point when tumor recrudescence or 2 years after radical resection. The last participant will be recruited before June 30, 2021.
Evaluation of ctDNA detecting assay in monitoring recurrence of early stage of lung cancer after radical resection., All the patients will receive biopsy genotype assay and ctDNA liquid biopsy., From assignment of the first subject to the time point when tumor recrudescence or 2 years after radical resection. The last participant will be recruited before June 30, 2021.|The molecular mechanism between the tumor recurrence and ctDNA mutations, From assignment of the first subject to the time point when tumor recrudescence or 2 years after radical resection. The last participant will be recruited before June 30, 2021.
In the study, 200 of stage IB,II and IIIA non-small cell lung cancer patients obtained radical resection will be recruited. All the patients will receive biopsy genotype assay and ctDNA liquid biopsy. The abundance of mutations of ctDNA was tracked at 4 time points, including:

1. st: 10 Days after patients received radical resection.
2. nd: When patients finished the chemotherapy or target drug delivery two cycles.
3. rd: 10 Days after patients finished the chemotherapy or target drug delivery four cycles.
4. th: When tumor recrudescence / 2 years after radical resection.

Tumor genomic clonal evolution was assessed by analyzing the relative abundance of mutations in plasma circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA).