Sorafenib, Busulfan and Fludarabine in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia Undergoing Donor Stem Cell Transplant
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose of sorafenib when given together with busulfan and fludarabine in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back or does not respond to treatment and who are undergoing donor stem cell transplant. Sorafenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as busulfan and fludarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving sorafenib with busulfan and fludarabine may work better in treating patients with recurrent or refractory acute myeloid leukemia.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Tacrolimus
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) as defined by toxicity (Phase I), Toxicity is defined as grade 3 or higher regimen-related non-hematologic, non-infectious, and non-graft versus host disease (GVHD) toxicity occurring during the period from day -5 to pre-transplant to day 30 post-transplant. Dose-finding will be done using the Bayesian Model Averaging Continual Reassessment (BMA-CRM) method., From day -24 pre-transplant to day 30 post-transplant|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), The method of Thall et al will be used to monitor PFS time. PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. The relationship between patient prognostic covariates and PFS and overall survival (OS) time will be assessed by Bayesian survival time regression., Interval between day of transplant and day of death or disease progression, assessed up to 6 years
Incidence of adverse events graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 6 years|OS, OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Categorical variables will be tabulated. The relationship between patient prognostic covariates and PFS and OS time will be assessed by Bayesian survival time regression., Interval between day of transplant and day of death, assessed up to 6 years|Non-relapse mortality rate, Defined as death from any cause other than relapse disease. These events will be tabulated., Up to 6 years|Relapse rate, These events will be tabulated., Up to 6 years|Graft failure, These events will be tabulated., Up to 6 years|Incidence of acute and chronic graft versus host disease graded according to National Cancer Institute CTCAE version 4.0, These events will be tabulated., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of sorafenib when combined with busulfan and fludarabine conditioning regimen.

II. To obtain preliminary evidence of efficacy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine safety of this regimen as per National Cancer Institute (NCI) toxicity criteria.

II. To determine time to neutrophil and platelet engraftment. III. To determine incidence of acute and chronic graft versus host disease (GVHD).

IV. To determine relapse incidence. V. To determine non relapse mortality. VI. To determine overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study chemotherapy resistance. II. To study deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage. III. To study immune recovery and cytokines (both in plasma and cells).

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of sorafenib, followed by a phase II study.

PRE-STEM CELL INFUSION: Patients receive sorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days -24 to -5, busulfan intravenously (IV) over 3 hours on days -20 and -13 and -6 and -3, and fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -3 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

STEM CELL INFUSION: Patients receive allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) IV in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

POST-STEM CELL INFUSION: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours on days 3 and 4, tacrolimus PO BID beginning day 5 for about 50 days, filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 7 and sorafenib PO BID beginning between days +30 and +120 for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with matched unrelated donor receive mycophenolate mofetil PO thrice daily (TID) or IV over 2 hours TID beginning on day 5 for up to 90 days for longer.