Safety and Efficacy Study of PRV111 and PRV211 in Subjects With Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Arm 1 ( Phase 2/3 Run in ):

PRV111: Topical Locoregional Delivery Placed Over the Tumor Region Primary Endpoint: Overall Response Rate (ORR) Primary Objective: Demonstrate the safety and efficacy of PRV111 in patients with Carcinoma in Situ (CIS) (WHO 2017)

Arm 2 (Phase 1) PRV211: Intraoperative Locoregional Delivery Placed into the Resected Tumor Bed Primary Endpoint: Safety Primary Objective: Determine Safety of PRV211 in intraoperative setting

Subject Assignment: Subjects will be assigned to Arm 1 or Arm 2 of this study based on disease staging Arm 1: Pathologically proven and clinically confirmed Tis/CIS of the lip or oral cavity Arm 2: Pathologically proven and clinically confirmed T1-T3, Nx, M0 of the lip or oral cavity
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: PRV211 (Intraoperative Cisplatin System)|DRUG: PRV111 (Cisplatin Transmucosal System)
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Proportion of treated tumors that have a response to PRV111 treatment. Response is defined as either or both: 1) histopathological downgrade of the disease such as partial or complete response as determined by post-treatment biopsies compared to baseline, or 2) clinically measurable tumor volume reduction from baseline of 30% or more from baseline., 6-7 months|Safety assessed via dose-limiting toxicities, Determine a safe dose of PRV211 (Intraoperative Cisplatin System) under the conditions of the trial. For the purpose of safety detection, if greater than 33% of subjects being evaluated for safety present with dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), the study drug is deemed unsafe., 1-month post-surgery and through study completion, ~12-14 months
Event Free Survival, An event is defined as: salvage surgery, locoregional recurrence at 12 months or death due to any cause., through study completion, ~12-14 months|Pharmacokinetics: platinum levels in blood, whole blood samples will be taken to quantify the amount of cisplatin present., through study completion, ~12-14 months
Privo's PRV111 \& PRV211 Product Description:

PRV111 (Cisplatin Transmucosal System) is a thin, 2-layer, matrix-type, transmucosal patch consisting of a chitosan matrix layer embedded with cisplatin loaded chitosan particles (CLPs) and a non-woven fabric adhesive unidirectional backing, which is applied to the matrix layer during manufacturing. The patch is self-adhesive.

In addition to the PRV111 patch, a separately packaged Permeation Enhancer (PE) Powder for Reconstitution is used in conjunction with PRV111. The reconstituted PE Solution is intended to improve the absorption of the cisplatin active ingredient and will be applied prior to patch application.

PRV211 is a nanoengineered delivery system intended for intraoperative chemotherapy treatment for all solid tumor surgeries immediately following surgical excision. The goal is to treat the tumor bed locally, eliminating any remaining micrometastases or close margins that are unable to be fully resected while avoiding system circulation.

ARM 1 Study Details PRV111 Topical Treatment

Screening: A screening period of up to 7 days is needed to evaluate subject eligibility for study participation. All subjects will undergo a baseline histopathological assessment at screening (confirming CIS of the oral cavity for inclusion), if an existing diagnosis does not exist. Also at screening, the investigator will determine if the patient requires surgery, and will assess the rest of the inclusion/exclusion criteria to check for eligibility.

Dose limiting Toxicity (DLT): DLT is defined as a clinically significant treatment-emergent AE (TEAE) or laboratory abnormality unrelated to surgery and/or disease progression, concurrent illness, or concomitant therapy within 1-month post-surgery Note: The dosing of 1.5 mg/cm2 per visit in this protocol is comparable to the one used in the prior completed phase 1/2 CLN-001 study, which has shown safety and efficacy causing no dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), related severe adverse events (SAEs) or systemic side effects.

Photo documentation: Tumors will be photographed including anatomic landmarks at each visit, prior to treatment at treatment visits for the ability to compare between visits. Photos are also required for documenting the location of biopsies taken. Additional details are provided in the Lab Manual.

Minimum Required Treatments for Efficacy Assessment: For assessing efficacy, each subject must complete at least 3 treatment visits.

Assessment for Postponement of Surgery: Response Assessment Criteria: If disease is not improved compared to baseline biopsy, subject proceeds to scheduled surgery, otherwise the subject will continue on with the PRV111 treatment regimen.

ARM 2 Study Details PRV211 Intraoperative Treatment

Screening: A screening period of up to 7 days is needed to evaluate subject eligibility for study participation. All subjects will be screened based on the SOC biopsy to obtain baseline histopathology. This biopsy will confirm the stage of the disease to be T1-T3, Nx, M0 of the oral cavity, amenable to surgery. Based on this confirmation, the rest of the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be checked for eligibility.

Safety and Efficacy of PRV211 Treatment: The safety of PRV211 treatment will be determined in the Safety Run-in study described below. Once the safety is determined, a second expansion study can be initiated in another study. The efficacy of PRV211 is determined in the expansion study. This efficacy will be assessed by the incidence of locoregional recurrence at 12 months.

Initial Safety Lead-in Study: This is an open label, safety lead-in phase 1b dose confirmation study in patients with T1-T3, Nx, M0 oral cancer, followed by an expansion phase 2 single arm study as an intraoperative chemotherapy with PRV211. For the purpose of safety detection, if greater than 33% of subjects being evaluated for safety present with dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), the study is deemed unsafe.

For the Safety Lead-in Study, 3 subjects will be initially enrolled. If more than 1 subject has dose limiting toxicity (DLT), the study stops. Otherwise, 3 additional subjects will be enrolled and if more than 2 DLTs are detected in the total of 6 subjects, the study is deemed unsafe and the study stops. If 2 or less DLTs are observed, the treatment will be considered safe.

At the conclusion of the Safety Lead-in portion (6 patients), if PRV211 is determined to be safe, an expansion study can be initiated. The 6 subjects from the Safety Lead-in study will be included in the expansion study and these patients will be monitored for efficacy.