Study of Oral Ketamine Versus Placebo for Treating Depression in Patients Undergoing Treatment for Cancer
The primary purpose of this study is to see if it is safe to give patients with cancer a low dose of the FDA approved anesthetic drug ketamine at the same time they receive radiation, chemotherapy, and/or surgery for their cancer treatment to treat depression and its effects. Researchers would also like to see if giving ketamine at the same time as cancer treatment is practical and reasonably acceptable to the patient.

Depression has many negative consequences for outcomes in those with cancer. It causes delayed treatments, increases in hospital lengths of stay, decreases in treatment adherence, poorer self-care, and decreased quality of life, even at 3 years post treatment. The presence of depression is the number one predictor of incomplete treatment and difficulty with rehabilitation. Therefore, investigators would also like to see if it is feasible to give patients ketamine during their routine cancer treatment treat depression and its negative effects on cancer treatment outcomes, and also help with anxiety, pain, and quality of life. The study will also use a placebo to compare to the good and/or bad effects of ketamine. A placebo is not an active drug and it will be look the same as ketamine, as a liquid to be taken by mouth.

Ketamine is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as a general anesthetic by itself for some diagnostic and surgical procedures or combined with other general anesthetic agents. It has also been shown to reduce cancer pain. Ketamine is considered experimental in this study because it is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of depression.
Cancer|Depression
DRUG: Ketamine|OTHER: Placebo
Proportion of patients pre-screened that were potentially eligible for study participation., 24 months|Proportion of patients that were potentially eligible who were approached., 24 months|Proportion of approached patients that decline study participation and why., 24 months|Proportion of approached patients that agreed to participate, 24 months|Proportion of approached that were randomized., 24 months|Proportions of patients discontinuing prematurely from study treatment for any reason, including side effects attributed to ketamine or side effects attributed to placebo, documenting reasons for dropout., 24 months|Proportion of patients evaluable., 24 months
Adverse events related to study treatment., 10 months|Patient-reported Frequency, Intensity and Burden of Side Effects (FIBSER) scores., 10 months|Treatment expectancy and satisfaction as measured by the credibility/expectancy questionnaire (CEQ)., 10 months
Changes in scores for QIDS-SR-16 questionnaire., 10 months|Changes in scores for Pain VAS questionnaire., 10 months|Changes in scores for HADS questionnaire., 10 months|Changes in scores for UW-QOL questionnaire., 10 months|Changes in scores for SRA questionnaire., 10 months
This is a prospective, single center, double blind, randomized, two-arm feasibility study of oral ketamine versus placebo for the treatment of depression in depressed patients with cancer undergoing curative intent cancer therapy. Approximately 20 patients with cancer about to undergo cancer therapy will be randomized 1:1 to receive study treatment with one of the following regimens:

Arm A: nightly oral administration of 1.0 mg/kg ketamine Arm B: nightly oral administration of placebo (after completion of Arm B, patients will have the option to receive a nightly oral administration of 1.0 mg/kg ketamine and follow study procedures over again)

Consenting patients will undergo screening procedures, and if eligible, a baseline interview and brief questionnaires regarding depression, mental and emotional health, and quality of life assessments.

Study treatment will be administered for 12 weeks unless the patient experiences unacceptable toxicities, exhibits moderate to severe depressive symptoms, or withdraws consent. Patients on the placebo treatment arm will have the option to receive ketamine and follow all study procedures over again with the ketamine drug after completion of the placebo treatment.

Patients will be asked to complete psychosocial measurements every two weeks while on study treatment and monthly during a five-month follow-up period.