PBF-1129 and Nivolumab for the Treatment of Recurrent or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of PBF-1129 in combination with nivolumab in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has come back (recurrent) or spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as PBF-1129 and nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC V8
DRUG: Adenosine A2B Receptor Antagonist PBF-1129|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be measured by the occurrence of dose-limited toxicities as well as any other adverse events as defined in Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5. Frequency and severity of adverse events and tolerability of the regimen will be collected and summarized by descriptive statistics. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns. All patients who have received at least one dose of the therapeutic agents will be evaluable for toxicity and tolerability., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment
Overall objective response rate, Will be calculated and exact binomial 95% confidence interval (CI) will be provided., Up to 1 year after treatment discontinuation|Disease control rate, Will be calculated and exact binomial 95% CI will be provided., Up to 1 year after treatment discontinuation|Overall survival, Will be defined as time from initiation of therapy to death, or censored at last follow-up date if the subject is alive. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate overall survival with 95% CI., Up to 1 year after treatment discontinuation|Progression free survival, Will be defined as the time from initiation of therapy to the time of Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors progression or death. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate progression free survival with 95% CI., Up to 1 year after treatment discontinuation
Levels of myeloidderived suppressor cells (MDSC), Baseline MDSC and the changes upon treatment will be compared between responders and non-responders using two sample t-test or non-parametric Wilcoxon test as appropriate. Linear mixed effect models will be used to evaluate MDSC levels over the time with the response, as well as the clinical outcomes including resistance to treatment. Potential confounders (patients' demographics and clinical characteristics) might be included in the models., Up to 1 year after treatment discontinuation|Correlative biomarkers, We will compare responses within this cohort. The impact of STK11/LKB1 alterations and how it is associated with response will be assessed using logistic regression analyses., Up to 1 year after treatment discontinuation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of adenosine A2B receptor antagonist PBF-1129 (PBF-1129) and nivolumab in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) based upon the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of the combination of PBF-1129 and nivolumab in patients with advanced NSCLC, including progression-free survival (PFS), objective response (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and overall survival (OS) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the effect of PBF-1129 on the levels of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) within the tumor microenvironment (TME) and in peripheral blood of study patients.

II. To evaluate correlative biomarkers that might predict disease response to treatment with PBF-1129 and nivolumab therapy in previously treated NSCLC patients including STK11 genetic alterations and a transcriptional signature of LKB1 functional status developed by the Carbone lab.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of PBF-1129 given in combination with immune checkpoint blockade.

Patients receive adenosine A2B receptor antagonist PBF-1129 (PBF-1129) orally (PO) once daily (QD) and nivolumab intravenously (IV) on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 1 year.