The Clinical Research of Anti-CD20 CAR-T Cells in Patients With Refractory or Relapsed B Lymphocyte Lymphoma
The present study is an exploratory study. Patients who meeting the enrollment conditions for relapsed or refractory B-cell lymphoma receive a single intravenous dose of CD20-CART cells. The research with the open-label, single arm running control methods in order to initially observe the safety, tolerability, and cellular pharmacokinetics of CD20-CART cell drugs.
Relapsed or Refractory B-cell Lymphomas
DRUG: CD20 CAR-T cells
Study related adverse events [ Time Frame: 4 weeks ], Occurrence of study related adverse events, defined as NCI CTC ≥ Grade 3 signs/symptoms, laboratory toxicities and clinical events that are possible., 4 weeks
Graft Activity Endpoint Detection, The PCR method was used to detect the copy number of the exogenous CAR vector in the blood until the end of the test was negative for both tests., 24 hours, 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 5 months, 6 months, 1 quarter, 2 quarters, 3 months after returning to CART cells. Data were collected in quarters, 4 quarters, 5 quarters, 6 quart
The main purpose:

To preliminary explore the safety, tolerability and cellular pharmacokinetics of CD20-CART cell agents in the treatment of relapsed or refractory B-cell lymphomas.

The Secondary purpose:

The following indicators for preliminary observations of CD20-CART cells in the treatment of relapsed or refractory B-cell malignant lymphoma.

1. The determination of lymph nodes to evaluate the anti-tumor effect caused by the input of CD20-CART cells agents.
2. Assessing the ability of CD20-CART cell agents to inhibit the migration of bone marrow and lymph node tumor foci.
3. Assess the killing ability of CD20-CART cell agents to tumor cells in vitro, for patients whose tumor cells could obtain.
4. Disease control rate (DCR) (=CR (complete disease remission) + PR (partial remission of disease) + SD (stable disease), short-term efficacy assessment); Overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) (long-term efficacy assessment).