Trastuzumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well trastuzumab works in treating patients with metastatic or recurrent salivary gland cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them
High-grade Salivary Gland Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma|Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Salivary Gland Acinic Cell Tumor|Salivary Gland Adenocarcinoma|Salivary Gland Poorly Differentiated Carcinoma|Stage IVA Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVB Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVC Salivary Gland Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response) in patients treated with trastuzumab, A true response probability of 30% or greater would be of interest., Up to 4 years
Progression-free survival, From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival, Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess response (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response) in patients with advanced high-grade salivary gland carcinoma treated with trastuzumab.

II. To assess one-year progression-free survival and one-year overall survival for patients treated with this regimen.

III. To assess the toxicities associated with this treatment regimen in this group of patients.

IV. To measure the indicators of C-erb B2 oncoprotein expression and C-erb B2 oncogene amplification and epidermal growth factor receptor expression and explore the relationship between these markers and response, progression-free survival and overall survival in preliminary fashion.

OUTLINE: Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin) IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 8 weeks until disease progression and then every 3 months for 1 year and every 6 months until 3 years from study entry.