A Study to Detect V-Raf Murine Sarcoma Viral Oncogene Homolog B1 (BRAF) V600 Mutation on Cell-Free Deoxyribonucleic Acid (cfDNA) From Plasma in Participants With Advanced Melanoma
This is a single arm, multicenter, open label, and non-randomized clinical study on adult participants with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The study will be conducted in two phases. Pre-screening phase will assess the BRAF V600 mutation in a new mutation analysis triggered by a mutant plasma cfDNA test result. Treatment phase will assess the clinical outcome for the participants treated with vemurafenib plus cobimetinib. The length of the study will be approximately 38 months.
Metastatic Melanoma
DRUG: Cobimetinib|DRUG: Vemurafenib
Number of Participants with BRAF V600 Mutation as Assessed Using the Idylla^TM Diagnostic Platform, Days -56 to -1 (Pre-screening period)|Concentration of BRAF V600 Mutation as Determined on Plasma cfDNA, Days -56 to -1 (Pre-screening period)|Number of Participants by BRAF Mutation Status, Days -56 to -1 (Pre-screening period)|Number of Participants with BRAF V600 Mutation as Assessed Using the Idylla^TM Diagnostic Platform in Participants With BRAF Wild-Type Based on a Prior Tissue Test Result, Days -56 to -1 (Pre-screening period)
Percentage of Participants with Objective Response as Assessed by the Investigator According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), Baseline up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (up to 38 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Baseline up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (up to 38 months)|Duration of Response as Assessed by Investigator According to RECIST v1.1, Baseline up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (Up to 38 months)|Number of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Day 1 Cycle 1 up to 4 weeks after end of treatment or until initiation of another anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first (up to 38 months)|Overall Survival, Baseline up to death (up to 38 months)
This is a single arm, multicenter, open label, and non-randomized clinical study on adult participants with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The study will be conducted in two phases. Pre-screening phase will assess the BRAF V600 mutation in a new mutation analysis triggered by a mutant plasma cfDNA test result. Treatment phase will assess the clinical outcome for the participants treated with vemurafenib plus cobimetinib. The length of the study will be approximately 38 months.