Neoadjuvant Camrelizumab Combined With Chemotherapy for Resectable Stage IIIA-IIIB NSCLC
This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant camrelizumab combined with chemotherapy in resectable stage IIIA and IIIB (T3-4N2) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Inclusion criteria are: age 18-75, pathologically confirmed resectable stage IIIA-IIIB (T3-4N2) NSCLC, absence of EGFR, ALK, and ROS1 gene mutations, and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) status 0-1. All patients receive three cycles of camrelizumab combined with platinum-based doublet chemotherapy, followed by curative surgery within 4-6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy. Patients undergo 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET/CT scans in 1 week before treatment and 1 week before surgery, and peripheral blood samples are collected for biomarker analysis. The primary endpoints for follow-up are pathologic complete response (pCR) rate and major pathological response (MPR) rate, while secondary endpoints include safety and progression-free survival. Exploratory endpoints include molecular imaging research and biomarker analysis.
IMMUNOTHERAPY|Neoadjuvant Therapy|Resectable Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Biomarkers / Blood
DRUG: Camrelizumab Plus Chemotherapy
Major Pathological Response Rate, No more than 10% of tumor cells were found in neoadjuvant surgical specimens, From date of surgery to 14 days later|Pathologic complete response rate, No histological evidence of malignancy was found in the primary tumor and metastatic lymph nodes, From date of surgery to 14 days later
Adverse events, Number and percentage of cases of all adverse events, 24 weeks|Disease-free survival, The period of time from the initiation of treatment to the observation of disease progression or occurrence of death for any reason, 24 months
Molecular imaging research and biomarker analysis, Plasma ctDNA testing, serum metabolomics testing, 18F-FDG uptake value, circulating immunological biomarkers, and observation of tumor immune microenvironment, 20 weeks
This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant camrelizumab combined with chemotherapy in resectable stage IIIA and IIIB (T3-4N2) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Inclusion criteria are: age 18-75, pathologically confirmed resectable stage IIIA-IIIB (T3-4N2) NSCLC, absence of EGFR, ALK, and ROS1 gene mutations, and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) status 0-1. All patients receive three cycles of camrelizumab combined with platinum-based doublet chemotherapy, followed by curative surgery within 4-6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy. Patients undergo 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET/CT scans in 1 week before treatment and 1 week before surgery, and peripheral blood samples are collected for biomarker analysis. The primary endpoints for follow-up are pathologic complete response (pCR) rate and major pathological response (MPR) rate, while secondary endpoints include safety and progression-free survival. Exploratory endpoints include molecular imaging research and biomarker analysis.