Simulation Training of Endoscopy Staff to Improve Patient Experience in Colonoscopy
Some patients experience a degree of pain and discomfort during endoscopic examination of the large bowel. Sedatives and analgesics may be administered in low doses. Excessive dosage or intense pain may lead to hypotension and impaired level of consciousness. The purpose of the present study was to determine if simulation training of endoscopy staff in preventing pain and handling acute complications through effective teamwork could improve the quality of colonoscopy from the patients' perspective.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: simulation training
patient perception of colonoscopy, comparison of patient satisfaction aspects of colonoscopy before and after a simulation, course for staff. The patients fill out a questionnaire: Pain score on a visual analogue scale, Wiilingness to return for a repeat colonoscopy if necessary on a visual analogue scale, assessmment of doctor's and nurse's behaviour on a scale from 1 - 10 regarding empathy, quality of information. Staff answer a questionnaire where they assess the quality of teamwork on a scale from 1-10. They also assess the patients perceived pain on a visual analogue scale., 3 months
Staff perception of teamwork, comparison of staff's perception of quality of teamwork before and after a simulation course, 3 months
The study was carried out in a surgical department, where colonoscopies were performed on an out-patient basis under minimal sedation. The intervention consisted of a simulation based course for endoscopy staff. All endoscopy nurses and doctors participated (n=43). The course consisted of three short lectures followed by simulation training. The lectures dealt with technical aspects of colonoscopy, usage of medication and management of unexpected emergency events during the procedure, and finally with interprofessional teamwork and team communication. The lectures were followed by in situ simulation in an endoscopy room. For 2 months before and after the course a questionnaire based survey was carried out. The respondents were consecutive patients who had undergone colonoscopy under minimal sedation or no sedation (according to their own preference ). The questionnaire was filled out when the patient was fully recovered after sedation and ready to go home. The relevant nursing staff and doctor for the procedure also filled out their part of the questionnaire. Patients were invited to participate and gave written consent after oral and written information according to the Helsinki declaration .