Lenvatinib, Pembrolizumab, and Paclitaxel for Treatment of Recurrent Endometrial, Epithelial Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II clinical trial studies the effect of lenvatinib, pembrolizumab, and paclitaxel in treating patients with endometrial, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer that has come back (recurrent). While all 3 study drugs are FDA approved, and 2-drug combinations have been studied, the 3- drug combination has not been studied yet. The investigators believe that the addition of pembrolizumab to weekly paclitaxel and lenvatinib (or weekly paclitaxel to pembrolizumab and lenvatinib) is highly effective and safe with manageable side effects in both recurrent endometrial and platinum resistant ovarian cancer. The purpose of this trial is to study how well lenvatinib, pembrolizumab, and weekly paclitaxel work together in women who have recurrent endometrial cancer and/or recurrent platinum resistant ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer, and what kind of side effects patients may experience.
Platinum-Resistant Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma|Platinum-Resistant Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Objective tumor response, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1. Will be reported as a percentage and will be calculated by the number of patients with a complete or partial response divided by the total number of patients. The percentage of patients with stable disease and progressive disease will be calculated in a similar fashion., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Safety and Toxicity, Toxicity as assessed by Common Terminology for Adverse Events version 5.0 will be evaluated descriptively using frequencies and percentages and will be reported using tables. All patients who receive treatment, regardless of eligibility, will be evaluated for toxicity. Toxicities by type and maximum grade over the course of treatment and follow up will be summarized and by date of occurrence., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Progression free survival, Time from first therapy to the time of cancer progression, death or lost to follow up., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIAMRY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine objective antitumor activity (complete and partial response) of lenvatinib, pembrolizumab, and weekly paclitaxel as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria in recurrent endometrial and platinum resistant ovarian cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability weekly paclitaxel, lenvatinib, and pembrolizumab in study patients.

II. To measure the progression free survival in the study population. III. To measure the overall survival in the study population.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore the baseline tumor genetic and microenvironment parameters predictive of clinical benefit or resistance to the treatment combination and potential mechanisms of resistance.

OUTLINE:

Beginning cycle 1 day 1, patients receive lenvatinib PO daily, pembrolizumab IV on day 1, and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, on a 21 day cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.