Photodynamic Therapy Using Porfimer Sodium in Treating Patients With Recurrent Mouth or Throat Dysplasia or Recurrent In Situ Cancer or Stage I Cancer of the Mouth or Throat
RATIONALE: Photodynamic therapy uses a drug that becomes active when it is exposed to a certain kind of light. When the drug is active, tumor cells are killed. Photodynamic therapy using porfimer sodium may be effective against mouth or throat dysplasia and cancer of the mouth and throat.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying how well photodynamic therapy using porfimer sodium works in treating patients with recurrent mouth or throat dysplasia, recurrent in situ cancer of the mouth or throat, or stage I cancer of the mouth or throat.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: porfimer sodium|DRUG: Photdynamic Therapy (PDT)
Response, Response Rate 9.0 TUMOR RESPONSE 9.1 Tumor response will be evaluated at each follow-up visit. 9.2 Objective Tumor Response 9.21 Complete Response - CR1 Complete absence of visible lesion and negative biopsy. CR2 Complete absence of visible lesions without biopsy. 9.22 Partial Response. Reduction in the lesion size by 50% or more in the maximum size of the initial lesion or reduction in grade of lesion, e.g. severe -\> mild dysplasia. Patients that have any physical evidence of residual leukoplakia or erythroplasia will require biopsy.

9.23 No Response. All responses less than a Partial Response are considered as No Response.

9.24 Progressive Disease. Any increase in size of the treated lesion or an increase in grade of the treated lesion, i.e. mild to severe dysplasia., 2 years|Local Toxicity, Number of patients with an adverse event, 30 days
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine the response of patients with recurrent dysplasia, squamous cell carcinoma in situ, or stage I squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity or the larynx treated with photodynamic therapy using porfimer sodium.
* To identify the local toxicity of this treatment in these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients receive porfimer sodium subcutaneously followed by photodynamic therapy (PDT) comprising laser light delivered by a single or a diffuser (i.e., for broad areas of dysplasia) fiberoptic lens fiber. Patients with incompletely treated or missed sites of disease may receive another dose of laser light on day 5 without additional porfimer sodium. Patients with multicentric disease may undergo additional PDT at least 4-6 weeks after the initial treatment.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 1-2 months.