Hand-Foot Exercises on Peripheral Neuropathy
This study will be conducted to compare the effects of hand and foot exercises on peripheral neuropathy and quality of life in breast cancer patients taking taxanes
Breast Cancer|Neuropathy
OTHER: Hand and foot exercise
National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0(NCI-CTCAE v5.0):, NCI-CTCAE v.5.0 publishes standardized definitions for known adverse events and defines the severity of organ toxicities for patients receiving cancer treatment. In NCI-CTCAE, the severity of chemotherapy-related peripheral neuropathy is divided into two: motor and sensory peripheral neuropathy, and the severity of complaints that interfere with patients' daily life and personal care is questioned., 8 week|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (EORTC QLQ- CIPN 20), It reveals the effects of chemotherapy-related peripheral neuropathy symptoms and the functional limitations caused by these symptoms on patients. The scale includes sensory (tingling, numbness, pain, unsteadiness when walking or standing, distinguishing temperature and hearing), motor (cramps, writing, grasping small objects, weakness) and autonomic (dizziness after changing position, vision, erectile dysfunction). It has 3 subscales: The 20 items in the scale are Likert type and the answers are evaluated by giving 1 point at all, 2 a little bit, 3 points a lot, 4 points a lot. High scores from these sections indicate more symptoms and problems, and low scores indicate fewer symptoms and problems., 8 week|Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Visual Analog Scale (VAS) pain score was evaluated as "no pain" (score = 0) and "worst pain" (score = 10)., 8 week
İntroduction: New evaluation and care strategies for symptom control are gaining importance due to the increasing prevalence of cancer, expansion of chemotherapy indications, and the development of new chemotherapeutic agents with side effects such as peripheral neuropathy and pain. In the literature review, although there are studies evaluating the effects of neuropathic pain, neuropathy on quality of life and daily living activities, it was determined that there are a very limited number of studies on reducing chemotherapy-induced neuropathy. Simple, at-home exercises to prevent neuropathy can be done daily in a short period of time and do not require special equipment. These exercises may serve as an alternative therapy to improve quality of life by reducing pain in people with neuropathy.

Purpose: This study will be conducted to compare the effects of hand and foot exercises on peripheral neuropathy and quality of life in breast cancer patients taking taxanes.

Method: This study will be conducted using a randomized controlled research design. The research sample will consist of 84 women with breast cancer receiving chemotherapy in the chemotherapy unit of a training and research hospital. Research data will be collected using the Introductory Information Form, Visual Analog Questionnaire (VAS), National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (NCI-CTCAE v5.0) -Peripheral Neuropathy, EORTC QLQ-CIPN 20. The exercise program will start the week the first neuropathy symptom appears and continue for 8 weeks. Data will be collected in two time periods: the week of starting exercise (T1) and the 8th week after exercise (T2).

Conclusion: It is thought that home-based, simple exercise practices will reduce neuropathy symptoms and improve the quality of life in women with breast cancer receiving neurotoxic chemotherapy.