Testing the Addition of Radiation Therapy to the Usual Immune Therapy Treatment (Atezolizumab) for Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer, The RAPTOR Trial
This phase II/III trial compares the effect of adding radiation therapy to the usual maintenance therapy with atezolizumab versus atezolizumab alone in patients who have already received atezolizumab plus chemotherapy for the treatment of small cell lung cancer that has spread outside of the lung or to other parts of the body (extensive stage). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving radiation therapy in addition to atezolizumab may extend the time without extensive small cell lung cancer growing or spreading compared to atezolizumab alone.
Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), Will compare the distributions of PFS between treatment arms using a one-sided stratified log-rank test in all randomized eligible patients. The rates at various timepoints (e.g., every 6 months after randomization) and medians of PFS for each arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The associated 95% confidence interval (CI) will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Results from an unstratified analysis will also be provided., From randomization to any documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 6 years|Overall survival (OS) (Phase III), Will compare arm I to arm 2 based on OS using a stratified log-rank test. Hazard ratios will be estimated using a stratified Cox regression model. Event rates over time will be estimated within each treatment group using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 6 years
Incidence of adverse events, For each patient, the maximum severity reported for both immune mediated and non-immune mediated adverse events will be used in the summaries. Adverse events will be summarized regardless of relationship to protocol treatment as assessed by the investigator. All adverse events, adverse events leading to withdrawal, interruption or modification of protocol treatment, grade \>= 3 adverse events, and serious adverse events will be summarized. Deaths and cause of death will be summarized. The rate of treatment-related adverse events using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version \[v.\]5.0) will be reported with the frequency and severity (e.g., type, grade, and attribution) by arm, the analysis will be performed at the time of both phase II and phase III (if applicable) primary endpoint analyses. All adverse events will be classified as either immune or non-immune mediated., Up to 6 years|PFS (Phase III), Assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Will compare the distributions of PFS between treatment arms using a one-sided stratified log-rank test in all randomized eligible patients at 0.025 level. The rates at various timepoints (e.g., every 6 months after randomization) and medians of PFS for each arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The associated 95% CI will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. If one stratum has less than 10 events, the stratification factor which contains the level with the smallest number of patients will be removed from the stratified analyses., Up to 6 years|PFS in patients with 1-3 distinct visible tumors and > 3 distinct visible tumors, Will be similarly summarized and compared between experimental and control. The interaction between the treatment groups and tumor number groups will also be explored in Cox regression model., Up to 6 years|OS in patients with 1-3 distinct visible tumors and > 3 distinct visible tumors, Will be similarly summarized and compared between experimental and control. The interaction between the treatment groups and tumor number groups will also be explored in Cox regression model., Up to 6 years|PFS in patients receiving consolidation radiotherapy to all visible disease and patients who do not receive consolidation radiotherapy to all visible disease, Up to 6 years|OS in patients receiving consolidation radiotherapy to all visible disease and patients who do not receive consolidation radiotherapy to all visible disease, Up to 6 years
Tumor burden, Tumor burden determined by central radiographic assessment, using both tumor number and tumor volume will be associated with PFS and OS benefit. The PFS and OS will be similarly summarized and compared between experimental and control in the following subgroups: 1) high or low tumor burden, using \>= 4, 5, or 6 metastases as a cutoff; 2) high or low tumor burden, using the median of centrally reviewed radiographic tumor volume as a cutoff., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare investigator-assessed progression free survival (PFS) between atezolizumab plus radiotherapy and atezolizumab alone. (Phase II) II. To compare overall survival (OS) between atezolizumab plus radiotherapy and atezolizumab alone. (Phase III)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the toxicity between the atezolizumab plus radiotherapy arm and the atezolizumab arm.

II. To assess the impact of adding radiotherapy on PFS and OS in patients with 1-3 visible tumors and \> 3 visible tumors.

III. To assess the impact of adding radiotherapy on PFS and OS in patients receiving consolidation radiotherapy to all visible disease ("complete consolidation") and patients who do not receive consolidation radiation to all visible disease ("incomplete consolidation").

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the association between pre-treatment tumor burden (determined by central radiographic assessment, using both tumor number and tumor volume), and PFS and OS benefit.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes +/- 10 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30 minutes +/- 10 minutes. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo radiation therapy once daily (QD) on days 1-5 during weeks 1-5 only.

Patients undergo positron emission tomography and computed tomography (PET/CT) scan, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial. Patients also undergo blood and tissue collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.