Preventive Effects of Zoledronic Acid on Bone Metastasis in Patients With Stage IIIB and IV Lung Cancer
Bone metastases are common in patients with advanced lung cancer and can have devastating consequences. Preventing or delaying bone metastases may improve outcomes. Bisphosphonates are inhibitors of osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. The current indications for bisphosphonates include the treatment of metabolic disorders of bone metabolism (e.g., osteoporosis and Paget's disease), the treatment of hypercalcaemia of malignancy (HCM), and the prevention of skeletal-related events(SREs）from malignant bone disease. Clinical trials also confirm that bisphosphonates, and zoledronic acid（ZOL) in particular, can prevent bone loss from cancer treatment.There is also emerging evidence that the benefits of bisphosphonate therapy in the oncology setting are more extensive. This study will evaluate whether the addition of ZOL 4 mg every 3 months for up to 1 years in patients with stage IIIB/IV lung cancer could reduce the rate of bone metastases ,improve progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival(OS), and delay time to bone metastases .
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Zoledronic acid
Percentage of Participants With Bone Metastases at 12 Months, Percentage of participants developing at least 1 bone metastasis, whether or not symptomatic. Bone scans were scheduled at screening and at 6-monthly intervals after study entry, or when symptoms suggested the presence of bone metastases. Positive bone scans required confirmation by x-ray, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or computed tomography (CT)., Months 12
Progression-Free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to the date of the first documented progression or recurrence of disease or death from any cause. Time to disease progression (TTP) was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines with evaluations every 3 months., Up to 24 months|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival, Months 6, 12, 18, and 24 ]
Bone metastases are common in patients with advanced lung cancer and can have devastating consequences. which can lead to pain, decreased mobility and skeletal complications .Preventing or delaying bone metastases may improve outcomes. Bisphosphonates are inhibitors of osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. The current indications for bisphosphonates include the treatment of metabolic disorders of bone metabolism (e.g., osteoporosis and Paget's disease), the treatment of hypercalcaemia of malignancy (HCM), and the prevention of SREs from malignant bone disease. Clinical trials also confirm that bisphosphonates, and zoledronic acid in particular, can prevent bone loss from cancer treatment.There is also emerging evidence that the benefits of bisphosphonate therapy in the oncology setting are more extensive. This study will evaluate whether the addition of ZOL 4 mg every 3 months for up to 1 years in patients with stage IIIB/IV lung cancer could reduce the rate of bone metastases ,improve progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival(OS), and delay time to bone metastases .