Oral Complications in Hematological Malignancies
The aim of this study was to evaluate the prevalence and types of oral complications found in patients diagnosed with haematological malignancy
Hematologic Malignancy
Calculate the prevalence of oral complications., Calculate the prevalence of oral complications with special attention to infectious complications in hematological malignancy patients., Baseline
the morbidity related to oral complication in haematological malignancy patients., Study the morbidity related to oral complication in haematological malignancy patients., Baseline
Oral lesions can be the first presentation of hematological malignancy. Dentists occasionally are the first healthcare provider that detect oral signs related to a systemic condition and thus contribute to the early diagnosis of the disease 1. Oral health can impact the progression and the outcome of haematological malignancy patients', many patients may suffer from oral infections that might affect hospital stay, treatment cost and patient prognosis 2. The oral manifestations of patients with hematological malignancy can occur due to the disease itself or as a consequence of treatment 3.

Anemia (paleness of mucosa), coagulation disorder, oral petechiae or ecchymosis, spontaneous gingival bleeding and oral infection (Ulcers and overgrowth) may be an oral manifestation of a hematologic malignancy either at diagnosis or during follow up as well as in relapse 4. The treatment of hematologic malignancy includes chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Malignant cells are the target of antineoplastic drugs, but the oral epithelium and other cells with high mitotic rates are usually affected by the treatment. Chemotherapy and the conditioning regimen for HSCT have many adverse effects on the oral tissues depending on the type and dosage of medications 4. Oral mucositis, a common side effect of chemotherapy, causes severe pain, which is only relieved by opioids. Mucositis may appear as a generalized erythema and evolve into painful pseudomembranous ulcers. Neutropenia and thrombocytopenia are also common adverse effects of treatment, leaving patients more susceptible to oral bleeding, infections, and ulcerations. Oral mucosa pigmentation can also occur as an adverse effect of treatment 5. Considering these factors and lack of existing information, a study was designed to investigate the prevalence of oral complications problems occurring in a population of hematological malignancy patients in Assiut University Hospital.