Identification of Patients With Age-Related Clonal Hematopoiesis (ARCH) Among Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this study is to see if patients with cancer have a certain amount of genetic mutations in their blood. If certain levels of mutations are found in specific genes, patients may have a condition known as ARCH. The prevalence of ARCH is higher in cancer patients who received prior chemotherapy or radiation. Studying ARCH from your blood samples may also help researchers predict which patients are more likely to be prone to heart disease. Patients who are about to start chemotherapy/radiation, and patients who have completed chemotherapy/radiation will be approached to measure the incidence of ARCH. 5-10mL blood samples will be collected before and after treatment, and if ARCH is detected in a laboratory analysis, another blood sample will be collected. Patients with ARCH will repeat the blood collection yearly, and also be referred to a cardiology clinic for follow up.
Cancer
OTHER: Monitoring of ARCH variants
Referral to cardiology clinic, 6-12 months
The incidence of ARCH stratified by tumor type., 6-12 months
The spectrum of mutations stratified by tumor type., 6-12 months|The number of patients referred to the ARCH clinic, 6-12 months|The change in VAF over time post chemotherapy/radiation, 6-12 months|The change in VAF pre and post chemotherapy/radiation, 6-12 months
This is a non-randomized, single-centre, observational study assessing the incidence of ARCH in cancer survivors. Patients over the age of 60 who had or will receive chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy for solid or hematologic malignancies at the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre will be considered. Based on the time point of treatment, patients will either fall into a post or prior chemotherapy/radiation cohort. Peripheral blood will be taken and will be sequenced for ARCH DNA mutations. Patients who have ARCH-related mutations at a variable allele frequency (VAF) of at least 0.5% we will repeat the genetic sequencing yearly to assess changes in mutational spectrum and VAF over time.