Trial Comparing PLA to HIGRT (PROVE-HCC)
This phase II, randomized trial compare Quality of Life for patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) who are not surgical candidates or decline surgery and are treated with Percutaneous Local Ablation (PLA) or Hypofractionated Image-Guided Radiation Therapy (HIGRT).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Percutaneous Local Ablation|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Image Guided Radiation Therapy
Change in Quality of Life (QOL) Using EORTC C-30 (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30), To compare change in Quality of Life (QOL), as defined by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (EORTC C-30) post treatment in patients receiving PLA vs HIGRT. The EORTC QLQ-C30 reports a Summary Score that is calculated from the mean of 13 of the 15 QLQ-C30 scales (excluding Global Quality of Life scale and the Financial Impact scale). 28 of the items have a range of 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much) and two of them have a range of 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). The total summary score ranges from 30 to 126, with lower scores indicating a better quality of life. Only the change in summary score is reported; no individual subscale scores are reported., Baseline to one month
Change in Quality of Life (QOL) Using The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Hepatobiliary (FACT-Hep) Assessment, To compare change in Quality of Life (QOL), as measured by the FACT-Hep questionnaire post treatment in patients receiving PLA vs HIGRT from baseline to 1 month. The FACT-Hep Scale consists of five subscales: Physical well-being (PWB), Social/Family well-being (SWB), Emotional well-being (EWB), Functional well-being (FWB), and the Hepatobiliary Cancer Subscale (HCS). Total score ranges from 0 to 180, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. Average differences in each FACT-Hep Total Score for 3 months minus baseline are reported by treatment arm; no individual subscales are reported. An average difference \> 0 indicates improvement in QOL at 3 versus baseline. An average difference \< 0 indicates a worsening of QOL at 1 month versus baseline., Baseline, 1 month, 3 months; change between baseline and 3 months reported|Change in Quality of Life (QOL) Using EORTC QLQ C-30 (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30), To compare change in Quality of Life (QOL), as defined by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (EORTC C-30) post treatment in patients receiving PLA vs HIGRT. The EORTC QLQ-C30 reports a Summary Score that is calculated from the mean of 13 of the 15 QLQ-C30 scales (excluding Global Quality of Life scale and the Financial Impact scale). 28 of the items have a range of 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much) and two of them have a range of 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). The total summary score ranges from 30 to 126, with lower scores indicating a better quality of life. Only the change in summary score is reported; no individual subscale scores are reported., Baseline to 3 months|Change in Quality of Life (QOL) Using EORTC QLQ C-30 (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30), To compare change in Quality of Life (QOL), as defined by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (EORTC C-30) post treatment in patients receiving PLA vs HIGRT. To compare change in Quality of Life (QOL), as defined by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (EORTC C-30) post treatment in patients receiving PLA vs HIGRT. The EORTC QLQ-C30 reports a Summary Score that is calculated from the mean of 13 of the 15 QLQ-C30 scales (excluding Global Quality of Life scale and the Financial Impact scale). 28 of the items have a range of 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much) and two of them have a range of 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). The total summary score ranges from 30 to 126, with lower scores indicating a better quality of life. Only the change in summary score is reported; no individual subscale scores are reported., Baseline to 6 months|Number of Participants With Grade 2 or Higher Adverse Events, Grade ≥2 acute toxicity within 90 days of treatment initiation for each treatment as defined by the CTCAE v4.0, Up to 90 days post treatment|The Total Healthcare System Costs Associated With PLA vs HIGRT, Healthcare system costs estimated based on national averages for billable charges for all codes associated with PLA vs HIRGT throughout the course of treatment through 90 days post treatment., From time of intervention to 90 days post treatment
Administrative clarification:

This clinical trial was terminated due to poor enrollment and was replaced by a separate non-randomized trial (NCT04933435).