Neoadjuvant Aliya™ PEF Soft Tissue Ablation With Systemic Therapy in Early-Stage Resectable NSCLC
A prospective, single-arm, non-randomized, multi-center, open-label study following patients with resectable stage IIB to IIIA non-small cell lung cancer after Pulsed Electric Fields (PEF) ablation who may be candidates for standard of care neoadjuvant use of checkpoint inhibitor (nivolumab) treatment plus platinum doublet chemotherapy.
NSCLC
DEVICE: Aliya Pulsed Electric Fields (PEF) ablation|DRUG: Nivolumab plus Platinum Doublet Chemotherapy|DRUG: Standard of care neoadjuvant therapy|OTHER: Surgical Resection
Pathologic response, Pathologic response (percentage of residual viable tumor cells) of the resected lesion ablated with PEF and in resected lymph nodes in patients who received standard of care neoadjuvant nivolumab plus chemotherapy prior to resection., Surgical resection
Rate of R0 resection, R0 - no cancer cells seen microscopically at the primary tumor site, Surgical resection
This study is designed to evaluate the pathologic response of soft tissue ablated with Pulsed Electric Fields (PEF) in patients with resectable stage IIB to IIIA NSCLC who may be candidates for standard of care neoadjuvant use of checkpoint inhibitor (nivolumab) treatment plus platinum doublet chemotherapy. The study will enroll adult patients with suspected or confirmed 8th ed. Stage IIb-IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who are surgical candidates and have not yet received treatment for NSCLC. PEF ablation may be performed in conjunction with the clinically appropriate approach to collect standard of care biopsy samples to confirm disease progression. PEF ablation will be delivered via percutaneous approach utilizing the Galvanize Aliya™ System and the percutaneous Aliya Ablation Device.

SOC neoadjuvant systemic treatment will be delivered following PEF ablation delivery according to EGFR and ALK mutation status, tumor histology, and surgical candidacy. Patients will undergo surgical resection per standard of care.

The study will consent up to 15 adult patients in order to accrue at least five (5) patients who have completed surgical resection after receiving neoadjuvant therapy with nivolumab plus chemotherapy following PEF ablation.

The remaining patients (up to 10) not eligible for neoadjuvant nivolumab plus chemotherapy will receive either SOC systemic therapy post-PEF ablation followed by resection or, if not eligible for systemic therapy, will receive definitive surgery without neoadjuvant therapy as per institutional SOC.