Sodium Zirconium Cyclosilicate Lowers Hyperkalemia After Parathyroidectomy
Sodium zirconium cyclosilicate (SZC) has been demonstrated for its serum potassium-lowering efficacy and safety in hyperkalemia hemodialysis patients.

However, the effects of SZC during the perioperative period remained unknown.

This experiment aimed to determine whether using SZC would impact the serum potassium levels in patients with maintenance hemodialysis after parathyroidectomy (PTX).
Sodium Zirconium Cyclosilicate|Hyperkalemia|Hyperparathyroidism, Secondary
DRUG: Sodium zirconium cyclosilicate
Change of serum potassium levels, Laboratory chemistry measurement, Serum potassium levels were checked at three time points, which were t0 (6 am on the day of surgery), t1 (immediate after surgery), and t2 (9 pm on the day of surgery), respectively.
Change of serum calcium levels, Laboratory chemistry measurement, Serum calcium levels were checked at three time points, which were t0 (6 am on the day of surgery), t1 (immediate after surgery), and t2 (9 pm on the day of surgery), respectively.
Change of parathyroid hormone, Laboratory chemistry measurement, Parathyroid hormone were checked 24h before surgery and on the first day after surgery
Secondary Hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) is a common and severe manifestation of chronic kidney disease (CKD), especially in end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients. SHPT is characterized by elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) synthesis and secretion accompanied by parathyroid cell hyperplasia.Elevated PTH level is considered as a risk factor for fracture, hyperphosphatemia, anemia, and cardiovascular calcification that worsens the health-related quality of life and increases mortality.

Parathyroidectomy (PTX) has been considered the first-line treatment for severe SHPT. Generally, approximately 29% of patients with end-stage renal disease undergo parathyroidectomy to control secondary hyperparathyroidism. Successful PTX may rapidly reduce serum PTH levels and alleviate clinical symptoms.

Postoperative hyperkalemia is one common complication after PTX. With an incidence of 25-80%, in previous research, hyperkalemia has been reported during and immediately after PTX, leading to devastating consequences.

SZC increases fecal potassium excretion and lowers serum potassium levels by binding potassium ions, demonstrated to reduce serum potassium to normal levels within 48 hours in hyperkalemia patients.

Nevertheless, the effects of SZC during the perioperative period remained unknown.

Sixty-two patients with secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) were randomly recruited into the experimental and control groups. Patients in the experimental group were required to take SZC 10g before PTX. Laboratory chemistries, including serum potassium levels, serum calcium levels and serum PTH were obtained before and after surgery. We aimed to determine whether using SZC would impact the serum potassium levels in patients with maintenance hemodialysis after parathyroidectomy (PTX).