Applying Mobile Healthcare Education to Improve Cutaneous Self-care Capability
The goal of this clinical interventional study is to compare the efficacy of mobile healthcare education in two ways (game-based or text-based) to improve cutaneous self-care capability in cancer patients receiving EGFR-based target therapy. The main questions it aims to answer are:

Impact of different mobile healthcare education ways on cutaneous self-care capability of patients Impact of different mobile healthcare education ways on learning motivation of patients towards cutaneous self-care knowledge and skills

Participants will be randomly divided into two groups. Both groups will download a healthcare education application on their phone. One group will accept the education about the knowledge and self-care skills of cutaneous adverse drug reaction by playing game. In contrast, the other group will accept the same education content by reading text on the phone. Subjects will be asked to use the application at home for two weeks after giving consent to participate this study, and then completed questionnaire three times during study period. The timepoints of completing questionnaire are listed following:

Baseline / pre-intervention test (after signing informed consent form, D1) First post-intervention test (after finishing intervention, D15) Second post-intervention test (D30) Researchers will compare game group and text group to see if game group has better performance on cutaneous self-care capability and learning motivation.
EGFR Gene Mutation|Drug-Related Side Effects and Adverse Reactions|Cancer, Treatment-Related|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Mobile healthcare education game|BEHAVIORAL: Mobile healthcare education application
Change from baseline in the score of cutaneous adverse drug reaction (CADR) knowledge on researcher-designed questionnaire at Day 15 and Day 30., Comparing the improvement of CADR knowledge between different groups, Day 1, Day 15, Day 30
Investigate the learning motivation towards CADR by self-designed questionnaire at Day 15, Compare learning motivations between different groups towards CADR, Day 15|Change from baseline in the score of the quality of life on DLQI questionnaire at Day 15 and Day 30, Compare the quality of life between different groups, Day 1, Day15, Day 30|Investigate the user-experience of the mobile healthcare education APP by researcher-designed questionnaire at Day 15., Confirm the usability and game-experience of mobile healthcare education APP., Day 15|Change from baseline in the score of the self-care measurement adherence on researcher-designed questionnaire at Day 15 and Day30., Compare the self-care measurement adherence between different groups, Day1, Day15, Day30
The correlation among APP usability, learning motivation and self-care capability., Investigate the correlation among game usability, learning motivation and self-care capability., Day 1, Day 15, Day 30
This study is a randomized controlled study. Researchers use a random assignment, parallel two-group pre-test and post-test design to conduct a 1-month interventional study regarding giving health education to patients receiving EGFR-targeted drugs. A total of 3 questionnaires were collected to compare the learning efficacy of giving health education through mobile game and through text. Learning motivation, compliance with prevention care measures, the quality of life and the user experience will be also discussed.

Once the subjects sign the Informed Consent Form, they will be asked to conduct the pre-test questionnaire (D1). Then, the block-randomized assignment will be used to divide subjects into the experimental group or the control group. Both the experimental group and the control group downloaded a health educational APP, regarding cutaneous adverse drug reactions related to EGFR-targeted drugs, on their mobile phones.

After randomization, the researchers will give subjects a randomly generated 4-digit code. Subjects can use this code to log in the APP. After log-in, the subjects in the experimental group will see the interface of an educational game. Meanwhile, the subjects in the control group will see the interface of the text of educational content. Subjects will be asked to play the game or read the text at home for 2 weeks. The subjects will not know the difference between the experimental group and the control group, nor will they know whether they are assigned to the experimental group or the control group, thus maintaining the blindness of the subjects.

After 2 weeks, subjects will be asked to do the first post-test questionnaire (D15) to explore the short-term effect of the APP. Then, they will be encouraged to keep using the APP during the following 2 weeks. At D30, subjects will be asked to do the first post-test questionnaire (D15) to investigate the long-term effect of the APP.