Spectral Analysis Probe to Identify Glioblastoma Cells
This is a pilot, observational study to evaluate the intraoperative sensitivity of the Chaos Wand in detecting tumor tissue with glioblastoma disease.
Glioblastoma
Mean ratio of detecting glioblastoma cancer between the Chaos Wand spectral readings and histopathology as ground truth, For participants newly diagnosed with glioblastoma multiforme or patients who are suspected of having glioblastoma on pre-operative imaging who consent to the use of the Chaos Wand during surgery, 15-20 spectral readings will be compared to histopathology as ground truth to measure the sensitivity of the Chaos Wand to detect glioblastoma. For example, if a patient has 15 spectral readings but only 13 are histologically consistent with cancer, then the sensitivity of the wand would be 13/15\*100 = 87%. A mean value with standard deviation will be reported across all participants in the study., 6 months
Number of participants experiencing post-operative intracranial hemorrhage following surgical resection of glioblastoma with use of the Chaos Wand during surgery, For participants newly diagnosed with glioblastoma multiforme or are suspected of having glioblastoma based on pre-operative imaging who consent to the use of the Chaos Wand during surgery, the number of cases of intracranial hemorrhage during the post-operative hospital course will be measured., Up to 1 month following surgery|Number of participants experiencing post-operative ischemic stroke following surgical resection of glioblastoma with use of the Chaos Wand during surgery, For participants newly diagnosed with glioblastoma multiforme or are suspected of having glioblastoma based on pre-operative imaging who consent to the use of the Chaos Wand during surgery, the number of cases of ischemic stroke during the post-operative hospital course will be measured., Up to 1 month following surgery|Number of participants experiencing post-operative surgical site infection following surgical resection of glioblastoma with use of the Chaos Wand during surgery, For participants newly diagnosed with glioblastoma multiforme or are suspected of having glioblastoma based on pre-operative imaging who consent to the use of the Chaos Wand during surgery, the number of cases of surgical site infection during the post-operative hospital course will be measured., Up to 1 month following surgery
This is a pilot study to investigate if the Chaos Wand Spectral Diagnosis Probe can be used to identify Glioblastoma (GBM) cancer cells in patients undergoing standard surgical resection. Eligible patients who have consented to the use of the Chaos Wand will be scheduled for surgery as standard cancer care for GBM. During the surgical procedure, the Chaos Wand Spectral Diagnosis Probe will be utilized. Fifteen intraoperative readings and signal recordings of GBM tissue will be taken. The wand will only be used in areas that have already been deemed in need of resection due to GBM disease. Each site identified for spectral analysis will be marked. The wand does not come into contact with the brain at any point during this procedure. Following surgical resection of the GBM tumor, tissue will be collected from the same 15 sites where the Chaos Wand was used. The pathology report will be compared with the results of spectral analysis.