Phase II Treatment Stratification Trial Using Neck Dissection-Driven Selection to Improve Quality of Life for Low Risk Patients With HPV+ Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Cancer
Investigators will determine whether a treatment paradigm of up-front neck dissection, to more accurately pathologically stage patients, minimizing the number of treatment modalities in patients with low risk oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma, can improve quality of life.
Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Cancer
PROCEDURE: Neck Dissection|PROCEDURE: Standard-of-Care (SOC) Transoral Surgery of Primary Site|RADIATION: SOC Radiation|DRUG: SOC Carboplatin|DRUG: SOC Paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: Videofluoroscopy
Median Change in Quality of Life (QOL) From Baseline to 12 Months Post Treatment, Four QOL instruments will be administered: the University of Washington Quality of Life (UWQOL), University of Michigan Head and Neck Quality of Life Instrument (HN-QOL), the University of Michigan Voice Related Quality of Life Measure (V-RQOL), and the FACT Head and Neck (version 4) (FACT H\&N). Results of each of the 4 surveys will be reported in separate rows in the results table. The difference in scores from baseline to 12 months after completion of study treatment is calculated for each participant, with the median across all participants reported for each survey. Higher scores indicate better QOLs.

Range for Questionnaires:

HN QOLs: -100 to +100 VR QOLs: -100 to +100 UW QOLs: -100 to +100 FACTHN Physical: -28 to +28 FACTHN Social: -28 to +28 FACTHN Emotional: -24 to +24 FACTHN Functional: -28 to +28 FACTHN subscale: -40 to +40 FACTHN Total: -148 to +148, Baseline to 12 Months post-treatment (up to approximately 15 months post neck dissection).
Impact of Neck Dissection on Shoulder Function Using the Neck Dissection Impairment Index, The neck dissection impairment index will be scored and summarized for all patients who receive neck dissection.

Scores ranging from 0-100 with higher scores indicating better function, 2 years post-treatment (up to approximately 27 months post neck dissection)|Median Change in Quality of Life (QOL) From Baseline to 24 Months Post Treatment, Four QOL instruments will be administered: the University of Washington Quality of Life (UWQOL), University of Michigan Head and Neck Quality of Life Instrument (HN-QOL), the University of Michigan Voice Related Quality of Life Measure (V-RQOL), and the FACT Head and Neck (version 4) (FACT H\&N). Results of each of the 4 surveys will be reported in separate rows in the results table. The difference in scores from baseline to 24 months after completion of study treatment is calculated for each participant, with the median across all participants reported for each survey. Higher scores indicate better QOLs.

Range for Questionnaires:

HN QOLs: -100 to +100 VR QOLs: -100 to +100 UW QOLs: -100 to +100 FACTHN Physical: -28 to +28 FACTHN Social: -28 to +28 FACTHN Emotional: -24 to +24 FACTHN Functional: -28 to +28 FACTHN subscale: -40 to +40 FACTHN Total: -148 to +148, 2 years post-treatment (up to approximately 27 months post neck dissection)|Disease Specific Survival (DSS), Proportion of patients alive at 3 years from date of neck dissection. Death from OPSCC (Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Cancer) will be considered an event for DSS. Death from other causes will be censored at time of death., 3 Years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Proportion of patients alive and free of disease persistence, progression or recurrence at 3 years from the date of completion of study treatment. Persistent disease at completion of treatment, post-treatment recurrence or disease specific death will be defined events for progression free survival (PFS)., 3 Years|Overall Survival (OS), Proportion of patients alive at 3 years from date of neck dissection. Death from any cause will be considered an event for overall survival., 3 Years
After enrollment, all patients will undergo neck dissection and primary site biopsy. Pathology will be reviewed, and patients will proceed into one of three standard-of-care (SOC) treatment groups. The treatments themselves are not the focus of this study; the focus of this study is quality of life in this population, after a pathology-based treatment plan, to assess the utility of the investigational "neck dissection first" paradigm. The SOC treatment plans are as follows:

1. Patients with a single lymph node that measures less than six centimeters, have no extracapsular extension in the lymph node, and have no perineural or perivascular invasion of the primary biopsy will undergo transoral surgery of the primary site.
2. Patients who have 2 positive nodes with no extracapsular extension, or have perineural or perivascular invasion of the primary biopsy will undergo radiation.
3. Patients who have extracapsular extension in any number of lymph nodes or in those patients in whom negative margins are unable to be obtained after the completion of transoral surgery will undergo chemoradiation.

After completion of therapy (surgical, radiation, or combined modality) patients will be followed closely on an outpatient basis including regular exams, quality of life questionnaires, and interval surveillance imaging as clinically indicated. Swallowing function will also be addressed by videofluoroscopy one year after completion of therapy. Blood/plasma and oral rinses for correlative studies will be collected at 3-month intervals during 3 years of follow up.

This study was initially registered as if it were an inter-group comparison; however, the original and consistent intent has been to determine whether a treatment paradigm of neck dissection guided staging as a whole can minimize the number of standard treatment methods used, leading to improved quality of life in low risk patients with HPV+ oropharyngeal squamous cell cancer. Though certain groups are expected to need multimodal definitive treatment downstream of the experimental "neck dissection first" paradigm, the population must be assessed as one group in this trial to assess the utility of the paradigm.