Study of Fruquintinib in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
Fruquintinib administered at 5mg once daily in 4 weeks treatment cycle (three weeks on and one week off) was well tolerated and demonstrated encouraging preliminary clinical antitumor activity in patients with advanced Colorectal Cancer (CRC) in Phase Ib study.

This study is aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Fruquintinib in the treatment of patients with metastatic CRC who have progressed after metastatic CRC second line or above standard chemotherapy.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: fruquintinib|DRUG: placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS refers to the time interval between the randomization date and the initial record of PD or date of death, whichever is earlier. The presence of PD shall be determined in accordance with the result of the evaluation performed by the investigator, using with RECIST v1.1 criteria. The date of final tumor evaluation will be used as the censoring date for subjects who have not presented with disease progression or death by that date. The date of randomization will be used as the censoring date for subjects which have no death and post-baseline tumor evaluation. If a subject has no post-baseline tumor evaluation but recorded as dead, death will be count as PFS event., From randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is defined as the rate of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response (BOR), based on evaluation of target lesions and non-target lesions with corroborant radiological method and determined by RECIST v1.1, for the ITT set of response evaluable subjects. Subjects who have no post-baseline tumor evaluation shall be regarded as subjects without ORR. Subjects who qualify for evaluation of CR or PR should have at least one available lesion for measurement with RECIST v1.1., From randomization up to progressive disease or end of treatment (EOT) due to any cause.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), The DCR is defined as the rate of corroborant CR, PR and stable disease (SD) as the BOR, based on evaluation of target lesions and non-target lesions with corroborant radiological method and determined according to RECIST v1.1, for the ITT set of response evaluable subjects., From randomization up to progressive disease or EOT due to any cause.|Over Survival (OS), The OS refers to the time interval between the randomization date and the date of death (any cause). The final known date of survival will be used as the censoring date for subjects that have not been reported to have died by the time of analysis., From randomization until death due to any cause.
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter Phase II clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of Fruquintinib plus Best Supportive Care (BSC) versus placebo plus BSC in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have progressed after second-line or above standard chemotherapy.

After checking eligibility criteria, subjects will be randomized into Fruquintinib plus BSC group (treatment group) or placebo plus BSC group (control group) in a ration of 2:1.

Primary Efficacy Endpoint:

Progression free survival (PFS) (According to RECIST Version 1.1).

Secondary Efficacy Endpoints:

Objective Response Rate (ORR), Disease Control Rate (DCR), Overall Survival (OS).

Safety and tolerance will be evaluated by incidence, severity and outcomes of adverse events (AEs) and categorized by severity in accordance with the NCI common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTC AE) Version 4.0.