Multidisciplinary Approach for Poor Prognosis Sinonasal Tumors in Inoperable Patients
Sinonasal tumors are rare diseases, as they account for the 0.2 % - 0.8 % of all tumors. For patients with inoperable tumors, the prognosis is poor and the current therapy is a combined-modality treatment that is both more effective and associated with less morbidity.

This study proposes innovative integration of multiple modality of treatment modulated by histology, molecular profile and response to induction CT.
Unresectable Sinonasal Tumors
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Adriamycin|DRUG: Ifosfamide|DRUG: Leucovorin|RADIATION: Radiotherapy - Patients needing Elective Nodal Volume (ENI)|RADIATION: Radiotherapy - Patients not needing ENI|RADIATION: Radiotherapy - Patients needing curative neck irradiation
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 5 years, defined as the time from enrollment to progression of disease or death for any cause; last date of follow up will be registered for patients alive not in progression., PFS will be assessed at 5 years.
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival defined as the time from enrollment (ITT population) or treatment start (PP population) to the date of death from any causes; last date of follow up will be registered for patients alive., Overall survival will be assessed at the following time frames: 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months, 30 months, 36 months, 48 months, 60 months, 72 months, 84 months, 96 months.|Ocular function preservation by visual field tests., Ocular function preservation by visual field tests., At the enrollment. During follow-up after: 3 months, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, 48 months, 60 months, 72 months, 84 months, 96 months.|Hearing preservation performed by audiogram test., Hearing preservation performed by audiogram test., At the enrollment. During follow-up after: 3 months, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, 48 months, 60 months, 72 months, 84 months, 96 months.|Overall safety profile of the whole treatment., Overall safety profile of the whole treatment characterized by type, severity graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI CTCAE\] Version 4.03), timing and relationship to study therapy of adverse events and laboratory abnormalities collected., From the day of the Informed Consent Form signature through to 90 days after the last dose of the last therapy administered (i.e., radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy).|Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (CR and PR by RECIST criteria version 1.1), After the end of 1st, 3rd and 5th cycle of induction therapy and before the radiotherapy. During f-up at the following time frames: 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months, 30 months, 36 months, 48 months, 60 months.|Adverse events and laboratories abnormalities., Adverse events (characterized by type, severity, timing) and laboratories abnormalities (graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI CTCAE\] Version 4.03), induced by radiotherapy (both photon RT and heavy ion RT)., During the treatments. F-up at the following time frames: 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, 18 months, 24 months, 30 months, 36 months, 48 months, 60 months, 72 months, 84 months, 96 months.
So far, surgery followed by radiotherapy (RT) has been the usual approach for advanced disease. Technical improvements in surgical approaches have been reported, providing less invasive surgery with lower morbidity. However, there are cases of unresectable tumors where the needs of novel strategies is higher.

New therapeutic strategies are needed to obtain more efficient treatment with less morbidity. Some studies explored the role and feasibility of induction chemotherapy (CT) and the prognostic value of response to CT. Histology and molecular pattern can guide the type of administered CT. The first drives the choice of drug to be associated with Cisplatin, while mutational status of p53 (wild type, WT vs mutated, MUT) is a predictive value for response to CT with Cisplatin plus 5-Fluorouracil and Leucovorin in ITAC.

Moreover, proton/carbon ion beam therapy, compared to conventional photon therapy, provides a more accurate and intense dose to tumor area, with potentially higher control of disease.

Treatment outcomes for unresectable paranasal sinus carcinoma are poor, and combined-modality treatment is needed to find out novel therapeutic strategies.