Safety & Efficacy/Tolerability of Rhenium-186 NanoLiposomes (186RNL) for Patients Who Received a Prior 186RNL Treatment
This is an open-label, multicenter, Phase 1 study to establish the safety and efficacy/tolerability of a single dose of 186RNL by the intraventricular route (via intraventricular catheter) for recurrence glioma in patients who received a prior treatment of 186RNL.
Glioma
DRUG: Retreatment Rhenium Liposome
Assessment of safety and tolerability of a second dose of 186RNL by CED as part of standard of care >30 days following first dose., Safety and tolerability assessed by number of participants with treatment-related toxicities and/or adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0 with 4-week evaluation periods for toxicity and disease assessment until disease progression is suspected., > 30 days|Overall Survival, To assess overall survival following 186RNL in patients with bevacizumab naïve recurrent glioblastoma following treatment with a second administration of 186RNL., 6 Months
Dose Distribution, To assess the dose distribution of a second dose of 186RNL by CED., 3 days|Overall Response Rate, To determine the overall response rate by Radiographic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria following 186RNL treatment., 90 days|Progression-free survival, To determine disease specific progression-free survival after 186RNL treatment., 6 Months
This Phase I clinical study evaluates a single dose of 186RNL (radionuclide clinical study drug) administered through a convection enhanced delivery catheter (CED catheter) in participants who have already received a prior treatment of 186RNL.

The clinical study treatment consists of a single administered dose of 186RNL per participant. The proposed dose is up to 8.8 mL as a single administration with an administered dose of 22.3 mCi.

An estimated number of participants to be enrolled in the study is approximately 40.

The clinical study treatment will be administered, following CED placement, by the clinical study physician.

Post-treatment evaluations will be done at Days 3, 7, 14, 28, and every subsequent 28-day interval thereafter until disease progression is confirmed and all treatment related toxicities are resolved. The minimum assessment period for toxicities is 12 weeks.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved 186RNL for this specific disease.