RC48 Monotherapy or Combination With Envafolimab for CDK12 Alterations mCRPC With Standard Treatment Failure
The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of vediximab monotherapy or in combination with enrolizumab for second-line treatment of CDK12 alterations mCRPC that has failed standard therapy. The research results are expected to provide new insights and breakthroughs for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer|CDK12 Gene Mutation
DRUG: RC48|DRUG: Envafolimab
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) ≥50% Response Rate (PSA50), Will assess PSA decline of ≥50% from baseline (PSA50), using the Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 36 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate (ORR) assessed according to the evaluation criteria for the efficacy of solid tumors (RECIST v1.1)., Up to approximately 3 years|Progression Free Survival(PFS), The time from the beginning of the patient's treatment to the disease progression or death for any reason.Based on RECIST criteria v1.1, From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 36 months|Overall Survival(OS), Time from start of treatment to death due to any cause., From treatment administration up to a maximum duration of 36 months|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Number of participants with adverse effects of treatment. Frequency and severity of adverse effects of treatment as assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0, Up to approximately 3 years
This study plans to enroll 72 mCRPC patients who have failed at least one NHT standard treatment and have exhausted PARPi treatment (such as AVPC/NEPC, requiring platinum chemotherapy resistance or intolerance). The patient carries CDK12 mutation combined with ERBB amplification (NGS or FISH) or HER2 IHC (1+, 2+, 3+). The enrolled patients were divided into queue A and queue B based on whether they carried potential immunotherapy adverse factors (including chromosome instability mutation profiles such as 11q13 co amplification, MDM2/4 amplification, FGFRs amplification, etc.). During the treatment phase of patients in queue A (excluding CDK12mut from mutation spectrum features in queue B), subjects received intravenous infusion of vediximab (2.0 mg/kg) every 2 weeks, in combination with subcutaneous injection of bevacizumab (400 mg) every 3 weeks, until disease progression or death occurred. During the treatment phase, subjects in queue B (CDK12mut combined with 11q13 co amplification, MDM2/4 amplification, FGFRs amplification and other chromosomal unstable mutation profiles) received intravenous infusion of vediximab (2.0 mg/kg) every 2 weeks until disease progression or death occurred. The main endpoint of the study was hierarchical testing, Step 1: ORR in CDK12 mut mCRPC with ERBB2 IHC 3+or FISH+or ERBB amplification (CN ≥ 4); Step2: ORR in ITT。 The secondary endpoints of the study include PSA50, PFS, OS, and safety.