Exercise and Quality of Life in Leukemia Patients
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of an exercise intervention on patient-reported anxiety, depression, fatigue, and sleep disturbances among acute leukemia patients. The investigators hypothesize that exercise will reduce fatigue in acute leukemia patients.
Acute Leukemia
OTHER: Exercise
Compare symptoms of fatigue in newly diagnosed acute leukemia patients, Symptoms will be assessed by patient reported survey at baseline, weekly through patient hospitalization, and then again at patient's first appointment after hospital discharge. We are interested in how the symptom changes over time., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks
Evaluate health-related quality of life changes over time, Health related quality of life will be assessed by patient reported survey at baseline, and at the week 4 timepoint. We are interested in change over time between groups, participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks|Compare symptoms of anxiety between groups, Symptoms will be assessed by patient reported survey at baseline, weekly during hospitalization, and at first clinic visit after discharge from hospital. We are interested in change over time between groups., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks|Compare symptoms of depression between groups, Symptoms will be assessed by patient reported survey at baseline, weekly during hospitalization, and at first clinic visit after discharge from hospital. We are interested in change over time between groups., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks|Compare sleep quality between groups, Symptoms will be assessed by patient reported survey at baseline, weekly during hospitalization, and at first clinic visit after discharge from hospital. We are interested in change over time between groups., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks|Changes in cardiovascular function, Exercise testing which will assess the outcome measures will be performed at baseline, and after 4 weeks of training (for the intervention group), or at the week 4 time point (for the control group). We are interested in change over time between groups., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks|Changes in muscle strength, Exercise testing which will assess the outcome measures will be performed at baseline, and after 4 weeks of training (for the intervention group), or at the week 4 time point (for the control group). We are interested in change over time between groups., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks|Changes in body composition, Exercise testing which will assess the outcome measures will be performed at baseline, and after 4 weeks of training (for the intervention group), or at the week 4 time point (for the control group). We are interested in change over time between groups., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks|Changes in functional mobility, Exercise testing which will assess the outcome measures will be performed at baseline, and after 4 weeks of training (for the intervention group), or at the week 4 time point (for the control group). We are interested in change over time between groups., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks|Changes in muscle size, Exercise testing which will assess the outcome measures will be performed at baseline, and after 4 weeks of training (for the intervention group), or at the week 4 time point (for the control group). We are interested in change over time between groups., participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 6 weeks
The purpose of this randomized, prospective, longitudinal study is to evaluate the impact of an exercise intervention on patient-reported anxiety, depression, fatigue, and sleep disturbances outcomes among acute leukemia patients. The study will include 2 groups for a total sample size of 30: n=15 control group and n=15 intervention group. Each patient enrolled in the intervention arm will participate in an exercise program for the duration of their hospitalization, 4-6 weeks on average during the first treatment (induction chemotherapy).