Belantamab Mafodotin, Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone for the Treatment of High-Risk Myeloma
This phase II trial studies the effect of belantamab mafodotin, pomalidomide, and dexamethasone in treating patents with high-risk myeloma. Belantamab mafodotin is a monoclonal antibody, called belantamab, linked to a chemotherapy drug, called mafodotin. Belantamab is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches to specific molecules on the surface of cancer cells, known as BCMA receptors, and delivers mafodotin to kill them. Chemotherapy drugs, such as pomalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Anti-inflammatory drugs, such as dexamethasone lower the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. Giving belantamab mafodotin, pomalidomide, and dexamethasone may kill more cancer cells.
Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Belantamab Mafodotin|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Pomalidomide
Complete response rate, Assessed per International Myeloma Working Group criteria (best response during maintenance therapy)., Up to 3 years
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicities of all patients will be tabulated as frequency and percentage. To evaluate the safety of the belantamab mafodotin, pomalidomide and dexamethasone (BPd) combination in the maintenance setting, proportion of safe patients will be estimated and its 95% confidence interval (CI) will be constructed by assuming binomial distribution. Adverse events will be graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 5.0)., Up to 3 years|Very good partial response rate with BPd maintenance, Will be calculated as the proportion with 95% CI, assuming binomial distribution., Up to 3 years|Stringent complete response rate with BPd maintenance, Will be calculated as the proportion with 95% CI, assuming binomial distribution., Up to 3 years|Overall response with BPd maintenance, Will be calculated as the proportion with 95% CI, assuming binomial distribution., Up to 3 years|Progression free survival, Will be estimated with standard Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years|Duration of response, Will be summarized with median and range., Up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated with standard Kaplan-Meier method. Both point and 95% CI of the median and other statistics (e.g., 6-month rate, 12-month rate, etc.) of OS will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity rate, MRD detection will summarized using descriptive., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of belantamab mafodotin, pomalidomide and dexamethasone (BPd) by assessing the \>= complete response (CR) rates with BPd maintenance in patients with high-risk myeloma by International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of BPd in patients with high-risk myeloma.

II. To determine the antitumor activity of BPd maintenance among high-risk myeloma patients.

TERTIARY/EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the changes in microenvironment among patients receiving BPd maintenance.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive belantamab mafodotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of every other cycle, pomalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.