Neoadjuvant Folfirinox Followed by Capecitabine and Limited Field Radiation for Localized Pancreatic Head Adenocarcinoma
This study is for subjects with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. The purpose of this research study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of modified Folfirinox and radiation therapy as treatment for adenocarcinoma (cancer) of the pancreas before surgery. Screening tests will be done to determine if subjects are eligible for participation in this study. If subjects are eligible to participate and agree to participate they will begin chemotherapy. After 3 cycles of chemotherapy, subjects will begin chemoradiation. Within 4 to 8 weeks of completing radiation therapy, subjects will have surgery. There will also be post-treatment and follow-up evaluations. Subjects will be followed for every 3 months for 3 years after their initial registration.
Adenocarcinoma of Head of Pancreas
DRUG: Neo-adjuvant Chemotherapy|RADIATION: Chemoradiation|PROCEDURE: Surgical Resection
Estimate the R0/R1 Resection Rate, Estimate the R0/R1 resection rate as the proportion of patients with R0 or R1 resection status based on the ITT population. R0 resection status is macroscopic complete removal of tumor by non-contaminated operation, with neither macroscopic nor microscopic residual tumor. R1 resection status is macroscopic complete removal of tumor by non-contaminated operation, with microscopic residual tumor., at time of surgery
Radiographic Tumor Response, The rate of CR, PR, SD and PD will be estimated as described in Section 14B prior to chemoradiation start and prior to surgery. The analysis population for estimation of radiographic response rate will be the ITT population., From enrollment to Surgery|Histopathologic Tumor Response, Estimate the rate of good histopathologic response as the proportion of grade I and II responders. The analysis population for this objective is the ITT population. Any patient for whom a surgical sample is not available will be considered a poor-responder., at the time of surgery|Time to Recurrence:, Time to recurrence is defined as the time from surgical resection to disease recurrence or death from any cause. Patients who have not recurred at the end of follow up will have their recurrence time censored at the last date of contact., 2 years|Overall Survival:, Overall survival is defined as the time from enrollment to death from any cause. Patients still alive at the end of follow up will have their survival time censored at the last date of contact., 2 years
Feasibility Objective, The feasibility of treating patients with localized pancreatic head adenocarcinoma with this neoadjuvant regimen will be evaluated by estimating the proportion of patients completing five of six planned doses. The analysis population will be the ITT population., From enrollment to end of chemotherapy part of the study|CTC Analysis, To evaluate and describe CTC numbers, CTC phenotype characteristics and effectiveness/rate of CTC culturing techniques from patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma., End of study|CTC Expression, To determine and evaluate the correlation between expression or biomarkers in the CTCs and expression of biomarkers in resected tissue specimens within the same cancer patient., 2 years
This study is for subjects with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. The purpose of this research study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of modified Folfirinox and radiation therapy as treatment for adenocarcinoma (cancer) of the pancreas before surgery. Screening tests will be done to determine if subjects are eligible for participation in this study. If subjects are eligible to participate and agree to participate they will begin chemotherapy. After 3 cycles of chemotherapy, subjects will begin chemoradiation. Within 4 to 8 weeks of completing radiation therapy, subjects will have surgery. There will also be post-treatment and follow-up evaluations. Subjects will be followed for every 3 months for 3 years after their initial registration.