Breast Cancer Plasma Adjuvant Intra-operative Treatment (Breast Cancer PAINT)
The goal of this clinical trial is to test the safety of the use of non-thermal plasma (NTP, an ionized gas) on the tumor bed after the removal of the tumor in breast cancer patients. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* To determine the safe and tolerable dose of NTP in patients with breast cancer;
* To assess the safety and tolerability of NTP;
* To assess the cosmetic effects of NTP treatment in patients with breast cancer. Participants will receive one treatment of the tumor bed after the removal of their breast tumor.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Convertible Plasma Jet
Incremental increase of NTP dose to reach maximum safe dose., The safety and tolerability of treatment will be evaluated by means of dose-limiting toxicities, adverse events and serious adverse events reports, physical examinations, and laboratory safety evaluations. Dose-limiting toxicities are defined as a grade 4 fever, breast infection, skin ulceration or chest wall necrosis (according to CTCAE v5.0)., 3 months
Number of patients with adverse events linked to the NTP treatment and type of events., Adverse events will be coded according to the CTCAE Version 5.0. The results will be tabulated to examine their frequency, organ systems affected, grade, and relationship to study treatment., 3 months|Number of patients with cosmetic alterations linked to the NTP treatment and type of alterations., This will be assessed through the quality of life questionnaires (questions on breast appearance and texture) and through the photo collection (pictures of the treated breast before/after NTP treatment)., 3 months
Evidence of cancer cell death and effects on normal tissue in samples treated with NTP ex vivo or in situ., Ex vivo or in situ treatment of cancerous and normal tissues with NTP followed by fixation of the tissues and analysis by immunofluorescence., 15 months
Non-thermal plasma (NTP) refers to an ionized gas composed of ions, electrons and other reactive agents. The anti-cancerous properties of NTP have been proven in vitro and in vivo. The 10-year local recurrence risk (LRR) in breast cancer patients after a breast conservation therapy (i.e., lumpectomy, typically followed by radiation therapy) is still as high as 15-20%. NTP could be used to further treat the tumor bed to reduce the LRR.

The primary objective of this clinical trial is to determine the safe and tolerable dose of NTP treatment following breast cancer lumpectomy. The secondary objectives are to assess the safety and tolerability of NTP and to assess the cosmetic effects of NTP treatment in patients with breast cancer. Our exploratory objective is to assess the impact of NTP treatment on cancerous and normal tissues. Patients are followed for 3 months after NTP treatment. The patients are divided into 3 groups: group A (n=3): NTP treatment of part of the tumor bed ex vivo. Group B (n=3): NTP treatment of part of the tumor bed in situ (all treated tissues are removed for analysis). Group C (n=6-24): dose escalation per "3+3 Design" up to a maximum dose level 3. NTP treatment of part of the tumor bed in situ (the treated parts of the tumor bed will not be excised, except a small portion for analysis).

The safety and tolerability of treatment will be evaluated by means of dose limiting toxicities, adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events reports, physical examinations, and laboratory safety evaluations. AEs will be coded according to the CTCAE v5.0. The results will be tabulated to examine their frequency, grade, and relationship to study treatment. The results of laboratory assessments will be evaluated similarly. The number of patients with cosmetic alterations linked to the NTP treatment and type of alterations will be assessed through the quality of life questionnaires (questions on breast appearance and texture) and through the photo collection. This is the first clinical trail to study the safety and tolerability of NTP in an all breast-cancer patient group.