9-ING-41 Combined with Retifanlimab, Plus Modified FOLFIRINOX for Patients with Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma (RiLEY)
This is a study of the combination of 9 ING-41 (elraglusib) and retifanlimab plus mFOLFIRINOX in patients with pancreatic cancer without prior systemic therapy for advanced disease. The safety lead-in cohort will consist of 6 patients, followed by dose de-escalation if necessary, based on safety assessments. After evaluating the safety and tolerability at the initial dose level, the study will proceed to an expansion cohort at the determined safe dose level, with the total maximum enrollment not exceeding 12 patients for the entire study.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Retifanlimab|DRUG: Chemotherapy|DRUG: 9-ING-41
Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Dose Limiting Toxicities DLTs Adverse Events The National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 Treatment related Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) will be monitored through the first 2 cycles of the study therapy (28 days). Follow up safety assessments will continue beyond the first 28 days and throughout the treatment on the trial to monitor for late onset treatment related adverse effects or toxicities, Up to 28 days after start of treatment
Disease control rate (DCR) - imRECIST, Stable disease for ≥ 16 weeks, confirmed complete response (CR), or confirmed partial response (PR) during study treatment per Immune-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (imRECIST ). CR: -100% Percent change (from baseline) in sum of the diameters (including measurable new lesions when present); PR: CR + ≤ 30% change from baseline; SD: \> 30% to \< +20% change from baseline., Up to 24 months|Disease control rate (DCR) - RECIST v1.1, Stable disease for ≥ 16 weeks, confirmed complete response (CR), or confirmed partial response (PR) during study treatment. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) Complete Response (CR) is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; Partial Response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters; Stable Disease (SD) is neither sufficient decrease (target lesions) to qualify as a PR or sufficient increase to qualify as PD. Incomplete Response/Stable Disease (SD) is the persistence of one or more non-target lesions., Up to 24 months|Objective response rate (ORR), Percent of patients with CR or PR imRECIST. Per Immune-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (imRECIST ). CR: -100% Percent change (from baseline) in sum of the diameters (including measurable new lesions when present); PR: CR + ≤ 30% change from baseline., Up to 24 months|Duration of response (DOR), Time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression imRECIST. Per Immune-Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (imRECIST ). CR: -100% Percent change (from baseline) in sum of the diameters (including measurable new lesions when present); PR: CR + ≤ 30% change from baseline., Up to 24 months|Progression free survival (PFS), Time from study entry until objective tumor progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) or death. Per RECIST, Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions compared to baseline sum of target lesions, or any new lesions. It also includes the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Up to 42 months|Overall survival (OS), Time from study entry to death from any cause., Up to 42 months|Time to treatment failure (TTF), Time from study entry to disease progression, or death from disease, whichever occurs first.Per RECIST, Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions compared to baseline sum of target lesions, or any new lesions.It also includes the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Up to 42 months|Treatment related adverse events, Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events per The National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 that are at least possibly related to study treatment measured from start of treatment to End of Treatment visit., Up to 24 months
Given the role of GSK-3β in immune regulation, the combination of GSK-3β inhibition with PD 1 inhibition may be expected to provide synergistic anti-tumor efficacy. The excellent safety profile of 9-ING-41, along with preclinical and clinical evidence of anti-tumor activity in pancreatic cancer, provides a strong rationale to evaluate the efficacy of 9-ING-41 in combination with a PD 1 inhibitor plus standard chemotherapy (mFOLFIRINOX) as frontline therapy for patients with advanced PDAC. The PD-1 inhibitor to be used in the present study is retifanlimab, a humanized, hinge-stabilized immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) monoclonal antibody. Retifanlimab has shown positive results for the treatment of patients with squamous carcinoma of the anal canal (SCAC) who have progressed after first-line chemotherapy treatment. In the Phase 2 PODIUM-202 trial, retifanlimab was well-tolerated at a dose of 500 mg administered via IV infusion every 4 weeks (28-day cycle) for up to 2 years.The combination of 9-ING-41 and retifanlimab with mFOLFIRINOX has not previously been administered to human subjects. In the 1801 study, 9-ING-41 has been administered in combination with various chemotherapy regimens including irinotecan,and has been well-tolerated. Retifanlimab alone has been well-tolerated when administered for up to 2 years in patients with anal cancer. Overall, based on previous nonclinical and clinical experience, both of these agents appear to have an acceptable safety profile and do not appear to have significant overlapping toxicities. However, it is possible that when they are administered together and in combination with mFOLFIRINOX, more frequent or severe AEs, or new AEs not previously observed with any of these agents administered alone, may occur. It is not known if administration of 9-ING-41 and retifanlimab will act synergistically to provide increased anti-tumor activity compared to mFOLFIRINOX alone. Subjects in this study should not expect to benefit directly by their participation in the study. The data collected in this study may benefit future cancer patients