Testing a New Chemotherapy Drug, KRT-232 (AMG-232) in Combination With Decitabine and Venetoclax in Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of navtemadlin when given together with decitabine and venetoclax in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent), does not respond to treatment (refractory), or is newly diagnosed. Navtemadlin may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Giving navtemadlin, decitabine, and venetoclax together may work better than decitabine alone in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Navtemadlin|DRUG: Venetoclax
Incidence of toxicity, Will be evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) will be determined. Based on the toxicity observed, a derived variable, the occurrence of dose limiting toxicity, will be created. Will be correlated with MDM2 Inhibitor KRT-232 (KRT-232) (MDM2 inhibitor AMG-232 \[AMG-232\]) and decitabine exposure. Toxicities will be tabulated and reported according to dose level, grade, type, cycle, and attribution- and, if numbers permit, by whether the patient had newly diagnosed or previously treated acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Cumulative incidence curves will be used to estimate the proportion of patients who will discontinue therapy for reasons of toxicity or general inability to tolerate the regimen. The data from all patients treated at the RP2D, will be combined for a final summary and listing of toxicities observed., Up to 4 weeks
Pharmacokinetics (PK) profile, Will be measured using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometric method. Standard descriptive methods (point estimates and confidence intervals, scatterplots) will be used to summarize the baseline levels and the changes from baseline (i.e. after treatment). The individual PK parameters from a single dose will be estimated maximum concentration (Cmax), area under the curve (AUC), half-life (T1/2), apparent clearance, and apparent volume of distribution using non-compartmental or compartmental PK methods with the software WinNonlin. Cmax and AUC will be calculated for decitabine systemic exposure., Baseline, 1, 3, 5, 8 and 24 hours post dose on days 4 and 18 of course 1; baseline, 0.5 hour, prior to end of infusion, 0.25, 0.5, and 1 hour post infusion on days 1 and 4 of course 1|P53 activation, Will be measured by MIC-1 levels. For serum MIC-1 levels, each individual level will be normalized to the baseline level for that patient. Will be analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Significance for comparisons will be at the p \< 0.05 level., Up to 4 weeks|Change in p53 signaling, Will be correlated with KRT-232 (AMG-232) and decitabine exposure. Will be analyzed using nonparametric statistics. Significance for comparisons will be at the p \< 0.05 level., Baseline to 30 days after end of study treatment
Complete response (CR) or CR with incomplete blood count recovery, The percent of CR's will be calculated and associated exact 95% confidence intervals will be constructed., Up to 112 days|Complete cytogenetic response (CRc or molecular CR [CRm]), Will be evaluated according to revised International Working Group criteria. The percent of CR's will be calculated and associated exact 95% confidence intervals will be constructed., Up to 112 days|Progression-free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier plots will be used to summarize PFS., From start of treatment to progression/recurrence or death, whichever comes first, assessed up to 4 weeks|Pharmacodynamic (PD) effects on leukemia blasts, PD effects of KRT-232 (AMG-232) in combination with decitabine on leukemia blasts will be explored., Up to 4 weeks|Predictive biomarker of sensitivity, PD effects of KRT-232 (AMG-232) in combination with decitabine on potential predictive biomarker of sensitivity will be explored., Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the toxicities of navtemadlin (KRT-232 \[AMG-232\]) in combination with decitabine (20 mg/m\^2 for 10 days), and venetoclax, and to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of KRT-232 (AMG-232) in combination with a standard dose of decitabine and venetoclax.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of KRT-232 (AMG-232), venetoclax, and decitabine when used in combination.

II. To evaluate p53 signaling induced by KRT-232 (AMG-232), venetoclax, and decitabine as measured by MIC-1 induction.

III. To correlate KRT-232 (AMG-232), venetoclax and decitabine exposure with pharmacodynamics endpoints (efficacy, toxicity, changes in p53 signaling).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate (RR) and progression free survival (PFS) of KRT-232 (AMG-232), venetoclax, and decitabine in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

II. To evaluate potential predictive biomarkers of response to KRT-232 (AMG-232), venetoclax, and decitabine in AML.

III. To evaluate the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of KRT-232 (AMG-232), venetoclax and decitabine in AML blasts.

IV. To determine the variability of decitabine incorporation into genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and correlate with systemic pharmacokinetics and exposure-response relationships.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of navtemadlin.

Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-10, navtemadlin orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-7, and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in patients with evidence of persistent AML.

Starting cycle 2, patients with no morphologic evidence of AML receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-5, navtemadlin PO QD on days 1-7, and venetoclax PO QD on days 1-14. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy, and blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.