Sex Steroids, Sleep, and Metabolic Dysfunction in Women
Increased plasma triglyceride concentration is a common feature of the metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity and a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Obesity is a major risk factor for two conditions that appear to be increasing in prevalence in women: the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and sleep disordered breathing. PCOS affects 5-8% of women. Sleep disordered breathing affects up to 10% of women. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the most common cause for sleep disordered breathing and particularly prevalent in obese women with PCOS (\~50%). Both PCOS and OSA augment the increase in plasma triglyceride (TG) concentration associated with obesity, and the effects of PCOS and OSA on plasma TG concentration appear to be additive. The mechanisms responsible for the adverse effects on plasma TG metabolism are not known. The primary goal of this project, therefore, is to determine the mechanisms responsible for the increase in plasma TG concentration in obese women with PCOS and OSA. It is our general hypothesis that alterations in the hormonal milieu that are characteristic of these two conditions are, at least in part, responsible for the increase in plasma TG concentration in obese women with the conditions. Furthermore, we hypothesize that the hormonal aberrations characteristic of the two conditions are particularly harmful to obese, compared with lean, women.

The effects of PCOS on skeletal muscle protein metabolism are also not known. However, sex hormones are thought to be important regulators of muscle protein turnover suggesting that muscle protein metabolism is likely to be affected by PCOS. We will examine this by determining the effect of individual sex hormones on muscle protein metabolism and hypothesize that testosterone administration will stimulate muscle protein metabolism while estrogen and progesterone administration will inhibit muscle protein metabolism.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)|Obstructive Sleep Apnea|Obesity
DRUG: Progesterone|DRUG: testosterone|DRUG: glucocorticoid|DEVICE: continuous positive airway pressure|DRUG: Estrogen|OTHER: Control
Very-Low Density Lipoprotein-Triglyceride (VLDL-TG) Secretion Rate, VLDL was isolated from plasma by ultracentrifugation with the tracer-to-tracee (TTR) of free glycerol in plasma and glycerol in VLDL-TG determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The fractional turnover rates of VLDL-TG was determined by fitting the glycerol TTR time courses in plasma and in VLDL-TG to a multicompartmental model. The hepatic (liver) secretion rates of VLDL-TG was calculated by multiplying the fractional turnover rates of VLDL-TG by the of VLDL-TG concentration., Before and at the end of interventions
Very-Low Density Lipoprotein-Triglyceride (VLDL-TG) Concentration, VLDL was isolated from plasma by ultracentrifugation with VLDL-TG concentration measured by using a colorimetric enzymatic kit (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis, MO)., Before and at the end of the interventions|VLDL-TG Plasma Clearance Rate (Means), VLDL was isolated from plasma by ultracentrifugation with the tracer-to-tracee (TTR) of free glycerol in plasma and glycerol in VLDL-TG determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The fractional turnover rates of VLDL-TG was determined by fitting the glycerol TTR time courses in plasma and in VLDL-TG to a multicompartmental model. The plasma clearance rate of VLDL-TG was calculated by dividing the VLDL-TG secretion rate by the VLDL-TG concentration., Before and at the end of the interventions|VLDL-TG Plasma Clearance Rate (Medians), VLDL was isolated from plasma by ultracentrifugation with the tracer-to-tracee (TTR) of free glycerol in plasma and glycerol in VLDL-TG determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. The fractional turnover rates of VLDL-TG was determined by fitting the glycerol TTR time courses in plasma and in VLDL-TG to a multicompartmental model. The plasma clearance rate of VLDL-TG was calculated by dividing the VLDL-TG secretion rate by the VLDL-TG concentration., Before and at the end of the interventions|Basal, Postabsorptive Fractional Synthesis Rates of Muscle Protein Synthesis, The fractional synthesis rate (FSR) of muscle protein synthesis was determined by assessing the incorporation of \[5,5,5-2H3\]leucine into muscle proteins. \[5,5,5-2H3\]leucine was infused for 5 hours with muscle biopsies obtained from the vastus lateralis muscle in the thigh 2 and 5 hours. The leucine tracer-to-tracee ratio (TTR) in muscle protein and the muscle free leucine pool was determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GCMS) and the FSR of muscle proteins calculated using a standard precursor-product model.

The FSR was calculated as %/h, which reflects the percent of all proteins in the muscle that were synthesized (made) per hour., Before and at the end of the intervention
Increased plasma triglyceride concentration is a common feature of the metabolic abnormalities associated with obesity and a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Obesity is a major risk factor for two conditions that appear to be increasing in prevalence in women: the polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) and sleep disordered breathing. PCOS affects 5-8% of women. Sleep disordered breathing affects up to 10% of women. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is the most common cause for sleep disordered breathing and particularly prevalent in obese women with PCOS (\~50%). Both PCOS and OSA augment the increase in plasma triglyceride (TG) concentration associated with obesity, and the effects of PCOS and OSA on plasma TG concentration appear to be additive. The mechanisms responsible for the adverse effects on plasma TG metabolism are not known. The primary goal of this project, therefore, is to determine the mechanisms responsible for the increase in plasma TG concentration in obese women with PCOS and OSA. It is our general hypothesis that alterations in the hormonal milieu that are characteristic of these two conditions are, at least in part, responsible for the increase in plasma TG concentration in obese women with the conditions. Furthermore, we hypothesize that the hormonal aberrations characteristic of the two conditions are particularly harmful to obese, compared with lean, women.

The effects of PCOS on skeletal muscle protein metabolism are also not known. However, sex hormones are thought to be important regulators of muscle protein turnover suggesting that muscle protein metabolism is likely to be affected by PCOS. We will examine this by determining the effect of individual sex hormones on muscle protein metabolism and hypothesize that testosterone administration will stimulate muscle protein metabolism while estrogen and progesterone administration will inhibit muscle protein metabolism.