Study of Atezolizumab + FLOT vs. FLOT Alone in Patients With GC/GEJ and High Immune Responsiveness
This is a multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label study comparing perioperative atezolizumab with FLOT chemotherapy versus FLOT alone in patients with locally advanced, operable adenocarcinoma of the stomach or GEJ with high immune responsiveness.
Gastric Cancer|Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Calciumfolinat|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel
Comparison of Event free survival (EFS) between arms, to compare Event free survival (EFS) in patients with locally advanced, operable esophagogastric adenocarcinoma receiving perioperative FLOT with atezolizumab versus FLOT alone in the intent to treat population (ITT) and where EFS is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or relapse after surgery or death from any cause, 10 years
Pathological complete regression (pCR, TRG 1a by Becker) rate, Pathological complete regression (pCR, TRG 1a by Becker) rate where pCR is defined as the absence of residual tumor based on evaluation of the resected esophagogastric specimen in the primary by a central reference pathologist, after 4 cycles (each cycle is 14 days) + surgery; i.e. after 12 weeks in total|Pathological complete and subtotal regression (TRG1a/b by Becker), Pathological complete and subtotal regression (TRG1a/b by Becker). TRG1a/b is defined as \< 10% residual tumor per tumor bed based on evaluation of the resected esophagogastric specimen in the primary by a central reference pathologist., after 4 cycles (each cycle is 14 days) + surgery; i.e. after 12 weeks in total|R0 resection rate, R0 resection rate where R0 resection is defined as a microscopically margin negative resection with no gross or microscopic tumor remains in the areas of the primary tumor and/or sampled regional lymph nodes based on evaluation by the local pathologist., after 4 cycles (each cycle is 14 days) + surgery; i.e. after 12 weeks in total|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) where OS is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, 10 years|Overall survival (OS) and EFS in the subgroup of patients with PD-L1 CPS score ≥ 5 and ≥ 10 and patients with MSI, Overall survival (OS) where OS is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause and EFS, where EFS is defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or relapse after surgery or death from any cause, both compared between the specific subgroups, 10 years
Detectable ctDNA after curative surgery, Prevalence of detectable ctDNA in patients after curative surgery, after surgery (approx. 12 weeks after first dose)|ctDNA clearance on treatment, Cumulative incidence of ctDNA clearance (on treatment) compared between arms, at baseline, before and after surgery (approx. 10 and 12 weeks after first dose), during study treatment (for up to 1 year), in case of relaps/progression
The study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the study treatment regimens. Potential study participants will be assessed for eligibility during a 28-day screening period that includes central verification of clinical stage and eligibility. Only immune-competent patients with either of the following MSI-high, PD-L1 CPS≥1, TMB ≥10/MB or EBV+ will be enrolled. Eligible patients will be randomized to perioperative treatment with either atezolizumab with FLOT (Arm A) or FLOT alone (Arm B). Randomization will occur in a 1:1 ratio with stratification by clinical nodal stage (N+ vs. N-), location of the primary (GEJ type I vs. GEJ type II/III vs. stomach), and PD-L1-status (CPS≥5 vs. CPS\<5). MSI testing will also be performed but not used as stratification factor.

Following randomization, study patients will enter the study treatment period which will last approximately 22 to 52 weeks depending on treatment arm and timing of surgery.

Arm A: FLOT with Atezolizumab:

Patients randomized to treatment Arm A will receive atezolizumab + FLOT in four 2-week treatment cycles as described below prior to undergoing surgery. Following surgery, patients will receive four further 2-week cycles of atezolizumab + FLOT followed by 8 additional 3-week treatment cycles with atezolizumab alone.

Arm B: FLOT alone:

Patients randomized to Arm B will receive FLOT alone for four 2-week treatment cycles prior to surgery. Following surgery, patients will receive four further 2-week cycles of chemotherapy alone.