GTI-2040 and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving GTI-2040 together with capecitabine works in treating patients with metastatic breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. GTI-2040 may help capecitabine kill more tumor cells by making them more sensitive to the drug
Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: GTI-2040|DRUG: capecitabine
Maximum Tolerated Dose Determined by Dose-limiting Toxicities, 1st 3 pts will be treated on arm 2. If 0/3 DLTs observed, the dose will be escalated to arm 3. If 1/3 DLTs onserved on arm 2, 3 more pts will be treated on arm 2. If no additional DLTs are observed on arm 2, the dose will be escalated to arm 3. If at most 1/6 DLTs observed on arm 3, arm 3 will be considered the MTD. If more than 1/6 DLTs observed on arm 3, the dose will be de-escalated to arm 2. If at most 1/6 DLTs observed on arm 2, arm 2 will be considered the MTD. If more than 1/6 pts on arm 2 experience a DLT, the dose will be de-escalated to arm 1. The remaining pts will be treated on arm 1 as the MTD, unless more than 1/6 DLTs, in which case the study will stop. DLT is defined as any grade III or IV non-hematologic toxicity (incl. diarrhea w\\ adequate antidiarrheal treatment \& hydration \& nausea/vomiting w\\ maximal antiemetic prophylaxis, as per protocol) or grade IV hematologic toxicity. DLT will be based on the 1st course of treatment according to the revised NCI CTC v 2.0, 21 days|Response Rate of a Combination of GTI-2040 and Capecitabine, Following the dose escalation step, additional patients will be accrued at the MTD and evaluated for disease response using RECIST v1.0 criteria. Patients with confirmed complete or partial response are considered to have responded favorably to treatment.The sample size and early stopping for futility was governed by a two stage Optimum design suggested by Simon. It was assumed that a true response rate less than 25% would not warrant further study of this agent. It was also assumed that a response rate of 45% would be considered promising. In the first stage (following the dose escalation step), 15 evaluable patients were treated. Four or fewer observed responses, would stop accrual, while 5 or more observed would continue accrual for an additional 12 patients during the second stage of the study. Ten or more responses out of 27 patients will be considered evidence warranting further study of the regimen providing toxicity and survival also appear favorable., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate and response duration to combination therapy with GTI-2040 and capecitabine in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.

II. To safely evaluate the toxicity of this drug combination and schedule in this patient population by first using a lower dose followed by escalation.

III. To determine pharmacokinetic data on plasma levels of GTI-2040 in this patient population.

IV. To investigate potential molecular markers of ribonucleotide reductase inhibition and fluoropyrimidine metabolism in this patient population treated with the combination of GTI-2040 and capecitabine.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive GTI-2040 IV continuously on days 1-15 of the first course and days 1-14 of all subsequent courses. Patients also receive oral capecitabine twice daily on days 2-15. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.