Bortezomib and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining bortezomib with docetaxel in treating patients who have advanced solid tumors. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining bortezomib with docetaxel may kill more tumor cells
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: docetaxel|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) as assessed by the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 2.0, 21 days|Toxicity and tolerability as assessed by NCI CTC version 2.0, Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
Pharmacokinetics of docetaxel, At baseline, at 30 and 60 during infusion, at 10 min, 30 min, 1, 3, 7.5, 24, and 48 hours, and at 8 days after completion of docetaxel infusion|Response rate, Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|20S proteasome activity, At 1 hour after first PS-341 infusion (week 2, day 2), and at 24 and 48 hours
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib and docetaxel in patients with advanced solid tumors.

II. Determine the toxicity and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine the biologic correlates of proteasome inhibition of bortezomib and determine the effects of this inhibition on the pharmacokinetics of docetaxel in these patients.

IV. Determine the antitumor efficacy of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

For course 1, patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 8 and bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 9 and 12. Patients then receive 1 week of rest. For course 2 and all subsequent courses, patients receive docetaxel on days 1 and 8 and bortezomib on days 2, 5, 9, and 12. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 2-6 patients receive escalating doses of bortezomib and docetaxel until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which no more than 1 of 6 patients experiences dose-limiting toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A minimum of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.