Predicting Breast Cancer With the BRAVE System
Breast cancer predominates among cancer diagnoses in Canadian women. It accounts for around 25% of new cases and contributes to 13% of all cancer-related deaths. In 2020, almost 27,400 Canadian women were diagnosed with breast cancer and 5,000 of them died from it.

Mammography is still the preferred method for screening for breast cancer. Although progress has been made over the years, mammography does have its drawbacks. These include physical discomfort for patients, exposure to X-rays and reduced effectiveness in dense breasts. The study team is therefore interested in developing a new breast cancer detection method, the BRAVE method.

The BRAVE method, short for "BRA-based Visco-Elastography", uses the high contrast of elastic stiffness in malignant breast tumors to detect possible cancer cases without the need for X-rays or breast compression.

The first phase, carried out on a small scale pilot study, aimed to assess the method's ability to distinguish a breast with no abnormalities from one with confirmed cancer. The second phase (current phase), carried out on a larger scale, aims to confirm the sensitivity and specificity of the method in detecting malignant lesions, i.e. to determine whether the method is capable of distinguishing between several types of breast masses.
Breast Mass|Breast Cancer
OTHER: Stiffness measurement by visco-elastography
Stiffness of the breasts, Main marker that will be assessed for its capacity to identify malignant lesions. It will be measured by the viscoelastic property values determined by the BRAVE system., Once, at recruitment, up to 6 months after mammography|Risk and malignancies lesions (RnMLs), Defined by mammography, additional imaging and biopsy results and scored as BI-RADS 5 to 6., At the time of mammogram, which will be no more than 6 months prior to recruitment
Breast density, The breast density can be scored as A: low-density, B: few areas of dense tissue, C: evenly dense, D: extremely dense, and is determined by standard of care imaging. Participants will be gathered in either NMBD group (A or B; normal density) or EMBD group (C or D, elevated density)., Once, at mammogram (up to 6 months prior to recruitement)
This study has two objectives, which will be studied in two separate groups.

1. To measure the sensitivity and specificity of BRAVE in identifying malignant lesions in a cohort of 300 women.
2. To assess the impact of breast density on the ability of BRAVE to discriminate malignant breast lesions.

The research team aim to recruit 300 women requiring follow-up imaging. Half will have lower breast density (categories A or B) and the other half will have higher breast density (categories C or D).

Participants will need to attend a single visit lasting approximately 75 minutes, where they will be asked to wear the study's bra and complete the examination process.

Other data will also be collected in the medical file to enable the team to confirm: the density of the breast, and the results and dates of mammography imaging or other tests related to breast cancer.