Using NPT to Evaluate Providing PPC as ELNEC-PPC WBT for Nurses
The purpose of this study is to explain the provision of palliative care at the end of life by the implementation of the ELNEC course, as WBT Program using the Normalization Process Theory, that focus attention on how complex interventions become routinely embedded in practice. In addition to, identify the changes implemented by the participant nurses (intervention group) in their clinical practice, after participating in WBT Program to provide Palliative Care alongside with usual care versus usual care only (control group) for children with life-limiting conditions or in the case of accidents/sudden death, at the end of life. And finally, provide findings that will assist in the interpretation of the trial results.
Cancer|Cardiac Anomaly|Cystic Fibrosis|Muscular Dystrophy|HIV/AIDS|Batten's Disease|Cerebral Palsy
GENETIC: end-of-life nursing education consortium-pediatric palliative care as web based-training plus usual care
The NoMAD Instrument, to describe respondents' experiences of using the intervention in the workplace., The data collection instrument is NoMAD \[1\]. The NoMAD translated into Arabic for the purpose of evaluating the normalization of the pediatric palliative care provide by web-based training concept. The Arabic-NoMAD is divided into 3 sections. It begins with section A consisting of 12 questions about the respondent, section B with 3 general questions about the intervention. Section C contains 20 specific questions about the intervention, corresponding to the 4 constructs of the normalization process theory \[2\], with Coherence and Cognitive Participation has 4 items, 7 items for Collective Action, and 5 items for Reflexive Monitoring. The scale consists of 31 Likert-type items. Items in section B are answered with a 10-point Likert scale ranging from "Not at all" to "Completely". The items in part C are answered using a 5-point Likert scale, ranging from "Disagree Strongly" to 'Agree Strongly'. 'Neutral' and 'Not applicable'., 2 weeks after the end of WBT course|The NoMAD Instrument, to describe respondents' experiences of using the intervention in the workplace., The data collection instrument is NoMAD \[1\]. The NoMAD translated into Arabic for the purpose of evaluating the normalization of the pediatric palliative care provide by web-based training concept. The Arabic-NoMAD is divided into 3 sections. It begins with section A consisting of 12 questions about the respondent, section B with 3 general questions about the intervention. Section C contains 20 specific questions about the intervention, corresponding to the 4 constructs of the normalization process theory \[2\], with Coherence and Cognitive Participation has 4 items, 7 items for Collective Action, and 5 items for Reflexive Monitoring. The scale consists of 31 Likert-type items. Items in section B are answered with a 10-point Likert scale ranging from "Not at all" to "Completely". The items in part C are answered using a 5-point Likert scale, ranging from "Disagree Strongly" to 'Agree Strongly'. 'Neutral' and 'Not applicable'., at 3 months for both groups
The interview, using framework analysis, informed by normalization process theory toolkit, Semi-structured face-to-face interviews will be conducted by all nurses on how successful passing ELNEC-PPC WBT course from the selected setting. All participants had direct contact with patients. Three rounds of interviews will be conducted after 3 months. After consenting, participants will be interviewed by the main researcher (MA). All interviews will be audio-recorded and transcribed. They will be asked why they felt the change was significant. During the second round of interviews, will be asked about the most significant developments since the beginning of the program; they will be asked to share their views about pediatric palliative care and to describe the extent to which they were adopting the approach, and if not, why not. Topic guides were informed by NPT \[3\], it will be used the interactive NPT toolkit. It contains 16 questions, for thinking through an implementation problem. The work was embedding improved and edited statements and explanations into a web-enabled tool., For 3-months post-course
The purpose of this study is to explain the provision of palliative care at the end of life by the implementation of the ELNEC course, as WBT Program using the Normalization Process Theory, that focus attention on how complex interventions become routinely embedded in practice. In addition to, identify the changes implemented by the participant nurses (intervention group) in their clinical practice, after participating in WBT Program to provide Palliative Care alongside with usual care versus usual care only (control group) for children with life-limiting conditions or in the case of accidents/sudden death, at the end of life. And finally, provide findings that will assist in the interpretation of the trial results.