Tretinoin and Arsenic Trioxide With or Without Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well tretinoin and arsenic trioxide with or without gemtuzumab ozogamicin works in treating patients with previously untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as tretinoin and arsenic trioxide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotoxins, such as gemtuzumab ozogamicin, may find certain cancer cells and kill them without harming normal cells. Giving tretinoin and arsenic trioxide together with gemtuzumab ozogamicin may kill more cancer cells.
Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia With PML-RARA
DRUG: Arsenic Trioxide|DRUG: Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Tretinoin
Event free survival, Monitored using a Bayesian time-to-event model., The time from the start of treatment to first documentation of disease relapse or death, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess whether a combination of all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA \[tretinoin\]), and arsenic trioxide (ATO) can produce long-term event-free survival in patients with low-risk untreated acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL).

II. Assess whether administration of gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) at the diagnosis in patients with high-risk APL (white blood cell \[WBC\] \> 10,000) and if the WBC rises to \> 10,000 after start of treatment (in patients with low-risk disease) will improve complete response (CR) rate without increasing toxicity in high-risk untreated APL.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive tretinoin orally (PO) twice daily (BID), arsenic trioxide intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours daily, and gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours once at weeks 1-4.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients achieving CR receive arsenic trioxide IV 5 days per week during weeks 1-4, 9-12, 17-20, and 25-28 and tretinoin PO BID for 2 weeks on and 2 weeks off. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months.