The Effect of Virtual Reality and Distraction Cards on Pain
When the literature is examined, it is seen that virtual reality and distraction cards are used during medical procedures, and they have a reducing effect on pain perception and lowering the level of anxiety . On the other hand, no study has been found in the literature on the application of virtual glasses and distraction cards to women in the PAP-SMEAR process. However, in accordance with the results of the study conducted with the application of virtual reality glasses and distraction cards, it is thought that the application of virtual glasses will have a positive effect on reducing the perceived pain of women in the PAP-SMEAR process of distraction cards.
Smear Layer|Cervical Cancer
OTHER: Virtual Reality (VR)|OTHER: Distraction Cards Practice Group|OTHER: Virtual Reality (VR) Breathing Exercise Group
Numerical Pain Rating Scale, In the numerical evaluation scale, pain ranges from 0 (absence of pain) to 10 (unbearable pain)., (1) before inspection (2) speculum insertion (3) also performing the PAP-SMEAR import process; (4) will be evaluated after the end of the transaction.|Verbal Category Scale, The Verbal Category Scale is also called the Simple Descriptive Scale, and this scale is based on the patient's choice of the most appropriate word to describe the pain condition. Pain severity ranges from mild to unbearable. In this scale, he used the words "mild", "disturbing", "severe", "very severe", "unbearable" to describe the severity of pain (Annex-4). The individual is asked to choose the appropriate category for his situation., before inspection pap smear|Verbal Category Scale, The Verbal Category Scale is also called the Simple Descriptive Scale, and this scale is based on the patient's choice of the most appropriate word to describe the pain condition. Pain severity ranges from mild to unbearable. In this scale, he used the words "mild", "disturbing", "severe", "very severe", "unbearable" to describe the severity of pain (Annex-4). The individual is asked to choose the appropriate category for his situation., (1) before inspection (2) speculum insertion (3) also performing the PAP-SMEAR import process; (4) will be evaluated after the end of the transaction.|State Anxiety Scale, In the State Anxiety Scale; There are ten reversed statements, items 1, 2, 5, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16, 19 and 20. When scoring, the reversed and direct statements are summed. Responses with a value of 4 indicate high anxiety in direct statements. In reversed expressions; Responses with a value of 1 indicate high anxiety, and responses with a value of 4 indicate low anxiety. The State Anxiety Scale score is calculated by adding 50 points to the difference between the total weighted scores of the reverse statements and the direct statements. Scoring in the State Anxiety Scale varies between 20-80 points. A score of less than 36 is considered no anxiety, a score of 37-42 is considered mild anxiety, and a score of 42 and above is considered high anxiety., before PAP-SMEAR procedure|State Anxiety Scale, In the State Anxiety Scale; There are ten reversed statements, items 1, 2, 5, 8, 10, 11, 15, 16, 19 and 20. When scoring, the reversed and direct statements are summed. Responses with a value of 4 indicate high anxiety in direct statements. In reversed expressions; Responses with a value of 1 indicate high anxiety, and responses with a value of 4 indicate low anxiety. The State Anxiety Scale score is calculated by adding 50 points to the difference between the total weighted scores of the reverse statements and the direct statements. Scoring in the State Anxiety Scale varies between 20-80 points. A score of less than 36 is considered no anxiety, a score of 37-42 is considered mild anxiety, and a score of 42 and above is considered high anxiety., after PAP-SMEAR procedure|Newcastle Nursing Care Satisfaction Scale, The scale is a 5-point Likert-type scale consisting of 19 items including nursing care. All items of the Newcastle Nursing Care Satisfaction Scale are positive. In the scoring used to determine the degree of satisfaction, there are statements such as "Not at all Satisfied=1 point, Slightly Satisfied=2 points, Fairly Satisfied=3 points, Very Satisfied=4 points, Extremely Satisfied=5 points". The scores given to the questions of all items marked on the score evaluation scale are added together. The maximum score obtained from the scale is 95, and the minimum score is 19. Evaluation is made by converting the total score obtained from the scale to 100. The increase in the total score obtained from the scale indicates that the patients' satisfaction with nursing is high., After PAP-SMEAR ALDIRAN procedure|Pulse Rate and Oxygen Saturation, The pulse rate and saturation values of women will be evaluated physiologically using the sensor compatible planet 50n LT model pulse oximeter (Nellcor COVIDIEN SPO 2) device, 20 minutes during pap smear
Cervical cancer is the fourth most common cancer worldwide. Cervical cancer is one of the most successfully treatable types of cancer, as long as it is detected early and managed effectively. WHO recommends the use of PAP-SMEAR and HPV DNA primary screening test to prevent cervical cancer in women. . The crude incidence of cervical cancer per 100,000 women in Turkey in 2020 is . WHO has targeted a threshold of 4 per 100,000 women by 2030 for countries to eliminate cervical cancer. To achieve this goal, 90% of girls should be vaccinated with HPV until the age of 15, and 70% of women should be screened with high performance PAP-SMEAR and HPV DNA at the age of 35 and 45 For this reason, it is seen that the PAP-SMEAR test has an important place in the protection of women's health. For the Pap-Smear test procedure, gynecological examination and speculum examination are included . Experiencing pain, anxiety, shyness and fear during gynecological examination are among the barriers to applying for and taking the pap-smear test, which has an important place in protecting women's health In the literature, it is seen that virtual reality glasses and distraction cards, which are cognitive behavioral techniques, are used during medical procedures and have a reducing effect on the perception of pain and reduce the level of anxiety . No study has been found that examines the effect on satisfaction and satisfaction levels. However, in line with the results of the study, it is thought that the PAP-SMEAR procedure will have a positive effect on women's perceived pain and anxiety, and increase their satisfaction levels. It emphasizes the need for cost-effective and feasible non-pharmacological methods by healthcare professionals during PAP-SMEAR application.