The Validity and Reliability of Self Measurement of Upper Limb Volume
Lymphedema is a common, chronic, side effect resulting from the treatment of breast cancer.Insufficiency in the lymphatic system causes edema in the upper limb. The accepted conservative treatment is based on the anatomy and physiology of the lymphatic system. The aim of the treatment is to reduce the volume of the upper limb by, initial, intensive treatment and then to keep the arm volume at this reduced level.The measurement of limb volume involves measuring the circumference of the arm at defined points and then with the use of a formula the volume of the arm can be calculated. After intensive therapy is complete the responsibility for measuring limb volume moves to the patient. This study will examine the reliability and validity of self measurement of limb volume. The investigators will compare the results of self measurement using the accepted plastic tapemeasure against a paper tape measure adapted for self measurement.Both methods will be compared to the "gold standard volume displacement. In the study there will be two meetings with the subjects where the patient and physiotherapist will use the three methods.
Limb Volume Measurement
OTHER: Self measurement of limb volume +water displacement
Comparison of self measurement of limb volume to water displacement, 2 years|validity of self measurement, 2 years
Lymphedema is a common, chronic, side effect resulting from the treatment of breast cancer.Insufficiency in the lymphatic system causes edema in the upper limb. The accepted conservative treatment is based on the anatomy and physiology of the lymphatic system. The aim of the treatment is to reduce the volume of the upper limb by, initial, intensive treatment and then to keep the arm volume at this reduced level.The measurement of limb volume involves measuring the circumference of the arm at defined points and then with the use of a formula the volume of the arm can be calculated. After intensive therapy is complete the responsibility for measuring limb volume moves to the patient. This study will examine the reliability and validity of self measurement of limb volume. The investigators will compare the results of self measurement using the accepted plastic tapemeasure against a paper tape measure adapted for self measurement.Both methods will be compared to the "gold standard volume displacement. In the study there will be two meetings with the subjects where the patient and physiotherapist will use the three methods.