Nanocrystalline Megestrol + Immunochemo As 1st-Line for ES-SCLC Cachexia
This study hypothesizes that nanocrystalline megestrol acetate can improve the cachexia condition in patients and enhance the efficacy of immunochemotherapy regimens. It plans to enroll patients newly diagnosed with extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) who are in the pre-cachexia or cachexia stage of the cachexia trajectory. These patients will receive first-line standard immunochemotherapy combined with nanocrystalline megestrol acetate intervention. Compared to the use of the first-line standard immunochemotherapy regimen alone, the study will monitor changes in body weight and body composition, which are nutritional status indicators relative to baseline, to assess whether these changes can translate into improved survival benefits and enhanced quality of life for patients.

The objective of this clinical study are：1.To assess the change in body weight relative to baseline in malignant patients with ES-SCLC treated with a first-line standard immunochemotherapy regimen during treatment with a simultaneous co-administration of nanocrystalline megestrol supportive intervention, compared to standard treatment. 2.To assess the impact of simultaneous co-administration of nanocrystalline megestrol supportive intervention during treatment with a first-line standard immunochemotherapy regimen, compared to standard treatment, on survival benefit and quality of life in patients with ES-SCLC malignancy. 3.To explore the improvement in inflammatory and nutritional markers and changes in lymphocyte subpopulations in patients with ES-SCLC malignant disease with simultaneous co-administration of nanocrystalline megestrol supportive intervention during treatment with a first-line standard immunochemotherapy regimen, compared to standard treatment.
SCLC, Extensive Stage
DRUG: Nanocrystalline Megestrol Acetate|DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: PTOC
The proportion of weight increase relative to baseline > 5% (Week 12), The proportion of weight increase relative to baseline \> 5% (Week 12), after 12 weeks of treatment
Objective Response Rate, Proportion of patients with reduction in stable in tumor burden of a predefined amount，Baseline until partial response (PR) or complete response (CR), whichever occurs first，assessed up to 12 months, From date of randomization until the date of first documented date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from random to either radiological progression or death, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|overall survival (OS ), Time from the first treatment to death from any cause or the end of the study, From date of randomization until the date of first documented date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months
This study employed a Phase II adaptive umbrella trial , aiming to enrich patients with ES - SCLC in the pre - cachexia or cachexia stage and provide them with the opportunity to receive potentially effective megestrol acetate treatment. To expand the scope of patients receiving treatment and enhance the understanding of the benefit - risk profile in a broader population, we established two cohorts: the criteria - fulfilled (CF) cohort, where patients need to meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria; and the compassionate use (CU) cohort, where patients meet the inclusion criteria and major exclusion criteria but may not meet the minor exclusion criteria. Concurrently, a prospective real - world study (RWS) was initiated to observe the clinical outcomes of patients in the pre - cachexia/cachexia stage receiving physician - selected treatment (PTOC).

The CF cohort plans to enroll 200 subjects, with liver metastasis (yes vs no), cachexia stage (pre - cachexia vs cachexia), and ECOG PS (0 - 1 vs 2) as stratification factors. These subjects will be randomly assigned to 2 treatment groups at a 1:1 ratio:

1. Nano - Megestrol Group: Nanocrystalline megestrol (QD, up to 12 weeks) + tislelizumab (Q3W, 4 cycles) + chemotherapy (carboplatin + etoposide, Q3W, 4 cycles);
2. Standard Control Group: Tislelizumab (Q3W, 4 cycles) + chemotherapy (carboplatin + etoposide, Q3W, 4 cycles).

In the CU cohort, the treatment plan and visits are consistent with the nanocrystalline megestrol group in the criteria - fulfilled (CF) cohort.In the RWS cohort, immunotherapy can use PD - 1/PD - L1 inhibitors other than tislelizumab, and other drugs are consistent with the nanocrystalline megestrol group in the criteria - fulfilled (CF) cohort.

CU and RWS groups do not set a specific number of subjects to be enrolled.