Health SMART (Stress Management and Relaxation Training)
The study will examine the effects of a cognitive behavioral stress management (CBSM) group intervention on antibody and cellular immune function among women who are at elevated risk for breast cancer because of family history.

Hypothesis 1: Women who participate in the CBSM intervention will have a larger primary and secondary antibody response to HA vaccine compared to women in the comparison group.

Hypothesis 2: In response to stimulation with HA antigen, lymphocytes from women who participate in the CBSM intervention will have larger primary and secondary in-vitro proliferative response to HA antigen, and increased primary and secondary in-vitro TH1 cytokine response to HA antigen compared to lymphocytes from women in the comparison group.

Hypothesis 3: Women who participate in the 10-week CBSM group intervention will report lower levels of distress immediately after the intervention compared to women in the comparison group. Changes in distress as a result of the intervention will be associated with any significant changes in immune function discovered in Aims 1 and 2.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Behavioral Stress Management (CBSM)
Linear mixed models regression with an exchangeable covariance structure will be used to determine the average change in IgM, IgG and proliferative response to HA vaccine antibody response to HA vaccine following the intervention, as a function of time., From post-intervention to 1-month post-intervention (primary antibody response) and from 6-months post-intervention to 7-months post-intervention (secondary antibody response)
Linear mixed model regression with an exchangeable covariance structure will be used to investigate the effects of change in distress on immune response as a function of time. We will include time as a random effect., Length of the protocol (Basline to 7 months post-intervention)
Cancer vaccines are emerging as important tools for cancer treatment and prevention. Unfortunately, the cohorts that ultimately will benefit most from the vaccines, those at elevated risk for cancer, are likely to be stressed. Chronic stress can impair immune function, including immune response to vaccines. An inadequate response to vaccines can weaken their protective effect. Women at elevated risk for breast cancer can experience significant levels of distress and have associated immune function decrements. Interventions to treat distress-related immune decrements among these women are needed because these women will be among the first candidates for breast cancer vaccines. In theory, stress-management interventions should improve immune function and response to vaccines; however, the findings to date are mixed. The proposed investigation will conduct an exploratory randomized clinical trial to collect preliminary data on the efficacy of a cognitive behavioral stress management (CBSM) group intervention among women who are at elevated risk for breast cancer because of family history and who are reporting elevated levels of distress. Study outcomes will include antibody and cellular immune response to hepatitis A vaccine and self-reported distress.