DOTATOC PET/CT for Imaging NET Patients
Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) are generally slow growing, but some can be aggressive and resistant to treatment. Compared to healthy cells, the surface of these tumor cells has a greater number of special molecules called somatostatin receptors (SSTR). Somatostatin receptor scintigraphy and conventional imaging are used to detect NETs.

This study proposes 68Gallium(68Ga)-DOTATOC positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) is superior to current imaging techniques. The goal is to evaluate the safety and sensitivity of 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT at detecting NETs and other tumors with over-expression of somatostatin receptors.
Neuroendocrine Tumors|Insulinoma|Gastrinoma|Glucagonoma|Vipoma|Pheochromocytoma|Paraganglioma|Neuroblastoma|Ganglioneuroma|Medullary Carcinoma|Pituitary Adenoma|Medulloblastoma|Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Small-cell Lung Cancer|Meningioma|Carcinoid
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 18F-FDG PET/CT
Sensitivity of 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT in the diagnosis of SSTR positive tumors., Determination of sensitivity of both exams when compared with pathology reports (if available) and compared with routine imaging (CT, MRI, Octreoscan™, US) if available and will be determined by confidence intervals using an exact binominal distribution by comparing the 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT with 18F-FDG and conventional imaging (if available).

The gold standard for the detection of lesions will be established through a combination of: 1) pathology; 2) unequivocal correlative imaging results as assessed independently by 2 physicians; 3) disease progression of specific findings upon follow-up, up to three years from baseline examination; 4) a clearly unequivocal plurimetastatic pattern confirmed by any imaging modality at any of the involved sites; 5) response of lesions on subsequent imaging following therapy., 3 years
Number of participants with 68Ga-DOTATOC-related adverse events as assessed by abnormal vital sign measurement., Vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate and pulse oximetry) will be measured at three time points (before and after injection, and 1 hour after the injection). All values that fall outside of the normal parameters will be assessed by a physician and reported as an adverse event., 1 hour|Number of participants with self-reported 68Ga-DOTATOC-related adverse event, Patients will be contacted by phone 24 hours after the 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT scan to see if they experienced any adverse events. These are recorded and evaluated for severity and likelihood they are related to the study drug. All adverse events will be recorded and summarized in the final report., 24 hours|Total number of lesions per anatomic location identified by 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT, All lesions will be tabulated and classified by compartment (pancreas, liver, bowel, lung and mediastinum, abdomen and retroperitoneal lymph nodes, bone, other) for all imaging modalities that have been done for that subject. A total number of lesions (for all modalities) will be calculated and a proportion of lesions detected by each modality will be reported and will be compared by calculating the median and its confidence interval. This will assess the efficacy of 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT., 3 years
Each subject will have two PET/CT scans, one using 68Ga-DOTATOC and the other using 18-Fluoride-Fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG). The 68Ga-DOTATOC radioactive tracer is manufactured for this study under a Clinical Trial Application filed with Health Canada. 18F-FDG is considered standard care and has been approved by Health Canada.

After providing informed written consent subjects will complete a medical history questionnaire.

Monitoring of adverse events There will be short-term evaluation of adverse events by comparison of vital signs before and after administration of 68Ga-DOTATOC. Twenty-four hours after 68Ga-DOTATOC administration the study coordinator will call the patient and see if they have experienced any adverse events during that time period and complete the adverse event questionnaire found in section 9.6.

Follow-up Assessments

The following information will be collected up to 3 years following the PET/CT scans:

* Initiation of a new treatment
* Laboratory results and pathology reports
* Results of imaging studies
* Final clinical diagnosis by physician and relevant clinical notes

The study is expected to take approximately 4 years for accrual.