An Experimental Medicine Clinical Study to Compare Peripheral Immune System From Subjects Without Cancer Diagnosis and Patients With Solid Tumours.
The aim of the study is to gain knowledge concerning expression of immune markers on immune cell subpopulation of PBMCs from subjects without cancer diagnosis and cancer patients. Few studies have addressed the question of the difference of peripheric immune cells between these two populations without a specific focus on an immune cell population or an indication, and with a multiparametic approach. The present study will combine phenotypic (using cell population markers and immune checkpoints) and functional analyses toallow to better interpret non-clinical results obtained with either subjects without cancer or cancer patient material and provide rationale to use material from subjects without cancer diagnosis for functional tests. It would also argument a go to healthy volunteer's clinical trials for assessing peripheral pharmacodynamic (PD), receptor occupancy (RO) and safety (Cytokine release syndrome, CRS), in the context of early drug development in immuno-oncology. Finally, generated data will be used to feed quantitative system pharmacology (QSP) models to increase their robustness and better predict drug pharmacology in humans.
Immune System
OTHER: blood samples
Standard differential blood count, flow cytometry analysis, 1 day
The aim of the study is to gain knowledge concerning expression of immune markers on immune cell subpopulation of PBMCs from subjects without cancer diagnosis and cancer patients. Few studies have addressed the question of the difference of peripheric immune cells between these two populations without a specific focus on an immune cell population or an indication, and with a multiparametic approach. The present study will combine phenotypic (using cell population markers and immune checkpoints) and functional analyses toallow to better interpret non-clinical results obtained with either subjects without cancer or cancer patient material and provide rationale to use material from subjects without cancer diagnosis for functional tests. It would also argument a go to healthy volunteer's clinical trials for assessing peripheral pharmacodynamic (PD), receptor occupancy (RO) and safety (Cytokine release syndrome, CRS), in the context of early drug development in immuno-oncology. Finally, generated data will be used to feed quantitative system pharmacology (QSP) models to increase their robustness and better predict drug pharmacology in humans.