Safety and Efficacy of TRPP Therapy in Glioblastoma Multiforme
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the safety of an innovative integrated treatment regimen for recurrent glioblastoma , including patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: TMZ
To Evaluate the Safety of the Integrated Treatment Regimen for Glioblastoma Multiforme, Evaluating the possible adverse reactions recorded are analyzed, mainly including the number, incidence and severity of radiochemotherapy-related adverse reactions and immune-related adverse reactions (irAE) from the beginning of treatment to the progression of disease.

Include:

1. Systemic reaction: such as dizziness, fatigue, bone or muscle pain, etc.;
2. drug allergic reaction;
3. Cytopenia caused by myelosuppression may lead to severe infection, bleeding, anemia, etc.;
4. Gastrointestinal symptoms such as loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea, constipation, fecal occult blood, gastrointestinal bleeding, etc.;
5. Immune-related adverse reactions (irAE) : Pneumonia, including immune correlation immunity correlation colitis, correlation immune correlation hepatitis, nephritis, immune related endocrine diseases, immune correlation skin reactions and other immune system Related adverse reactions., From first dose until 30 days after the last dose (up to approximately 2 years ) (Cycle length= 21 days)
To Evaluate the survival of the Integrated Treatment Regimen for Glioblastoma Multiforme, Using the RANO criteria as the efficacy evaluation criteria, multimodal MRI and 11C-MET PET/CT examination were performed to distinguish false progression, recurrence and radiation injury if necessary. MDT was discussed when necessary.

OS:Survival was measured from the start of treatment for 2 years or until death (from any cause within 2 years). Overall survival was estimated by planMeier. Patients who are still alive will be examined at the last contact visit.

See RANO Standard for specific standards., From first dose until 30 days after the last dose (up to approximately 2 years ) (Cycle length= 63 days)|To Evaluate the efficacy of the Integrated Treatment Regimen for Glioblastoma Multiforme, Using the RANO criteria as the efficacy evaluation criteria, multimodal MRI and 11C-MET PET/CT examination were performed to distinguish false progression, recurrence and radiation injury if necessary. MDT was discussed when necessary.

PFS:Progression-free survival (PFS) was calculated from the date of SD after treatment until the first occurrence of disease progression. Progression-free survival was estimated by Haplan-Meier. Patients who are still alive and have no disease progression will be examined at the last visit/contact. Whether disease progression is due to the primary or metastases should be documented.ORR and quality of life.

See RANO Standard for specific standards., From first dose until 30 days after the last dose (up to approximately 2 years ) (Cycle length= 63 days)
This study is a single-center, prospective, open-label, single-arm clinical study of an innovative integrated treatment regimen for recurrent glioblastoma multiforme.

The main outcome measurement of the study is to evaluate the safety of the integrated treatment regimen for glioblastoma multiforme. Secondary outcome measurement are OS, PFS, ORR, and quality of life. Safety is evaluated by monitoring adverse events, physical examination results, vital signs, ECG, hematology, and clinical biochemistry. Imaging was performed at the end of every 3 sessions to assess treatment outcome and disease progression. The whole treatment and efficacy will be observed for two years.