Nivolumab Dose Optimization in Patients With a Complete, Partial or Stable Response
Patients with advanced melanoma are, amongst others, currently treated with nivolumab monotherapy or with nivolumab and ipilimumab followed by nivolumab. Even though registration studies administered nivolumab in a 3 mg/kg 2 weekly scheme, currently, nivolumab monotherapy is either administered in a 240 mg 2-weekly scheme or in a 6 mg/kg or 480 mg 4-weekly scheme. With the current dosing regimen, steady-state is achieved after approximately 5 to 6 months, whereas a tumour response is usually observed earlier in patients with metastatic melanoma. Moreover, PD-1 receptor occupancy is almost saturated above doses of 0.3 mg/kg, or at nivolumab serum levels of 10 mg/L, which is a concentration that is achieved after one treatment cycle. In melanoma patients, the additional probability on response in patients treated with 3 mg/kg compared to 1 mg/kg seems limited. PFS and OS for 3 mg/kg were not superior to 1 mg/kg. Therefore, in this study, our aim is to investigate nivolumab trough levels and pharmacokinetic parameters after 3 reduced nivolumab doses.
Melanoma
DRUG: Nivolumab
Difference between the nivolumab mean trough level after 3 reduced doses (240 mg every 4 weeks) and after the first dose of 6 mg/kg or 480 mg., Difference between the nivolumab mean trough level after 3 reduced doses (240 mg every 4 weeks) and after the first dose of 6 mg/kg or 480 mg., Through study completion, an average of four months
- PD-1 receptor occupancy in PBMCs, measured 4 weeks after 3 reduced nivolumab doses, - PD-1 receptor occupancy in PBMCs, measured 4 weeks after 3 reduced nivolumab doses, Through study completion, an average of four months|Grade ≥3 adverse events (CTCAE) during reduced doses, Grade ≥3 adverse events (CTCAE) during reduced doses, Through study completion, an average of four months|Number of patients with new PD during 3 reduced doses, Number of patients with new PD during 3 reduced doses, Through study completion, an average of four months
Patients with advanced melanoma are, amongst others, currently treated with nivolumab monotherapy or with nivolumab and ipilimumab followed by nivolumab. Even though registration studies administered nivolumab in a 3 mg/kg 2 weekly scheme, currently, nivolumab monotherapy is either administered in a 240 mg 2-weekly scheme or in a 6 mg/kg or 480 mg 4-weekly scheme. With the current dosing regimen, steady-state is achieved after approximately 5 to 6 months, whereas a tumour response is usually observed earlier in patients with metastatic melanoma. Moreover, PD-1 receptor occupancy is almost saturated above doses of 0.3 mg/kg, or at nivolumab serum levels of 10 mg/L, which is a concentration that is achieved after one treatment cycle. In melanoma patients, the additional probability on response in patients treated with 3 mg/kg compared to 1 mg/kg seems limited. PFS and OS for 3 mg/kg were not superior to 1 mg/kg. Therefore, in this study, our aim is to investigate nivolumab trough levels and pharmacokinetic parameters after 3 reduced nivolumab doses.