Liver Cancer Prevention Trial in Patients With Chronic Hep C Infection
This randomized phase II trial studies how well S-Adenosyl-L-Methionine Disulphate P-Toluene-Sulfonate (SAMe) works compared to a placebo in preventing liver cancer in patients with chronic hepatitis C infection. Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming. The use of SAMe may keep cancer from forming in patients with advanced liver disease
Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Hepatitis C Infection
DRUG: S-adenosyl-L-methionine disulfate p-toluene-sulfonate|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: immunoenzyme technique|OTHER: high performance liquid chromatography
Change in Serum AFP Levels, Measured using an Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved assay. Mean change over time for the SAMe and placebo groups will be estimated. Differences in the change over time between the treated and control groups will be tested using a two-group repeated measures analysis of variance model., Baseline to week 24
Treatment-related Changes in Serum DCP for Hepatocellular Carcinoma, To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces serum levels of des-gamma carboxyprothrombin (DCP) in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C (hepatocellular carcinoma tumor markers)., Baseline to week 24|Treatment-related Changes in Serum AFP-L3 (Expressed as the Percentage of Total AFTP) for Hepatocellular Carcinoma, AFP-L3 assay will be performed by Wako Laboratories using their LiBASys platform., Baseline to week 24|SAMe, Change in SAMe levels, Baseline to week 24|Change in SAMe Metabolites - S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH), S-adenosylhomocysteine (SAH), Baseline to week 24|Change in SAMe Metabolites - Methionine, Methionine will be measured using HPLC with fluorescence detection., Baseline to week 24|Change in SAMe Metabolites - Total Homocysteine (tHcy), Total homocysteine (tHcy), Baseline to week 24|Change in SAMe Metabolites - Plasma GSH, Plasma GSH will be measured using HPLC with fluorescence detection., Baseline to week 24|Change in SAMe Metabolites - Malondialdehyde (MDA), malondialdehyde, Baseline to week 24|Change in SAMe Metabolites - 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), Serum marker of oxidative stress. One mechanism by which SAMe is hypothesized to be beneficial is by reducing oxidative stress., Baseline to week 24|Change in Markers of Liver Disease - AST, AST measurements will be performed in a College of American Pathologists (CAP)-certified lab using FDA-approved assays., Baseline to week 24|Change in Markers of Liver Disease - ALT, ALT measurements will be performed in a College of American Pathologists (CAP)-certified lab using FDA-approved assays., Baseline to week 24|HCV RNA, Change in HCV RNA levels. Serum level of HVC RNA was measured using COBAS TaqMan HCV test (Roche Molecular Systems)., Baseline to week 24|Changes in Quality of Life - Physical Score, Change from Baseline to Week 24 in Quality of life as as assessed with Short Form (SF)-36 Physical Component Scores. Measured quality of life using the SF-36, a widely used and general questionnaire of quality of life. Possible scores range from 0 and 100. High scores reflect good QOL and low scores reflect bad QOL. Change in QOL = (Week 24 score - Baseline score)., Baseline to week 24|Changes in Quality of Life - Mental Score, Change from Baseline to Week 24 in Quality of life as as assessed with Short Form (SF)-36 Mental Component Scores. Measured quality of life using the SF-36, a widely used and general questionnaire of quality of life. Possible scores range from 0 and 100. High scores reflect good QOL and low scores reflect bad QOL. Change = (Week 24 score - Baseline score)., Baseline to week 24
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces serum level of alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces serum levels of des-gamma carboxyprothrombin (DCP) and alpha-fetoprotein-L3 (AFP-L3) in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C (hepatocellular carcinoma tumor markers).

II. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks alters biochemical markers of liver disease (e.g., serum alanine aminotransferase \[ALT\], aspartate aminotransferase \[AST\], albumin, or bilirubin, etc.) and hepatitis C viral load in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C (hepatitis C liver disease).

III. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces serum levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), plasma levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE) and urine levels of F2-isoprostane in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C (oxidative stress).

IV. To determine whether treatment with SAMe for 24 weeks reduces plasma levels of methionine and homocysteine and increases plasma glutathione (GSH) and SAMe in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C (SAMe metabolites).

V. To determine the safety, tolerability and quality of life of SAMe treatment (up to 2,400 mg/day) for 24 weeks in patients with advanced liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive SAMe orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 24 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO once daily (QD) for weeks 1-4, PO BID for weeks 5-8, and PO three times daily (TID) for weeks 9-24 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks.