Comparison of Lobectomy and Segmentectomy for cT1aN0M0 Peripheral NSCLC
Anatomic segmentectomy may be a less invasive type of surgery than lobectomy for cT1aN0M0 peripheral NSCLC and may retain more pulmonary function. It is not yet known whether anatomic segmentectomy is non-inferior to lobectomy in treating stage IA non-small cell lung cancer. The aim of this study is to investigate whether the outcome of anatomic segmentectomy is similar to lobectomy for peripheral stage IA (≤ 2cm)non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: segmentectomy
Relapse-free survival, To evaluate the 5 year relapse-free survival (RFS) rate of two groups., 5 years
overall survival, To evaluate the 5 year overall survival (OS) rate of two groups., 5 years|Pulmonary function, to evaluate the pulmonary function as measured by expiratory flow rate of the two groups 6 months and 12 months postoperatively., 6 months and 12 months|the duration of postoperative hospital stay, to evaluate the postoperative inpatient days of the two groups., an expected average of 5 days|performance status, to evaluate the postoperative performance status of the two groups by ECOG score standard., 12 months
Objective: To compare the outcomes(including 5 year relapse free survival rate, 5 year overall survival rate, retaining pulmonary function and the rates of loco-regional and systemic recurrence ) of patients with peripheral stage IA (≤ 2 cm) non-small cell lung cancer undergoing anatomic segmentectomy vs lobectomy. And to evaluate whether the anatomic segmentectomy is an optimal type of surgery for the patients with peripheral stage IA (≤ 2cm) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Outline: This is a multicenter, prospective, randomized open phase III study of anatomic segmentectomy vs lobectomy for the patients with peripheral stage IA (≤ 2cm) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). According to completely random block design, the patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients undergo anatomic segmentectomy by minimal incision thoracotomy or thoracoscopy/VATS.
* Arm II: Patients undergo lobectomy by minimal incision thoracotomy or thoracoscopy/VATS.

Patients will be followed up every 3 months for the first year and then every 6 months for the subsequent 2 years and annually for 5 years postoperatively.