An Open-label Phase I/II Clinical Trial of PT-112 Injection for Advanced Solid Tumors and Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Use PT-112 alone for Phase I dose escalation stage: advanced solid tumors, Phase I dose confirmation stage: advanced solid tumors. Phase II hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). To evaluate the safety and tolerability of PT-112 injection from 250mg/m2 dose level with 3+3 dose escalation design, find Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Recommended Phase II Dose(RP2D) and evaluate the Pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of PT-112 through Phase I dose escalation stage. Phase I dose confirmation stage: evaluate the safety and tolerability of PT-112 with RP2D, evaluate the anti-tumor effect of PT-112 at RP2D. Phase II stage: evaluate the anti-tumor effect of PT-112 at RP2D in advanced HCC
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: PT-112 Injection
Adverse Event (AE), The primary outcome for Phase I dose escalation stage, Informed consent form (ICF) signed till 28days after end of treatment|Dose Limited Toxicity (DLT), The primary outcome for Phase I dose escalation stage, First dose till 28days after 1st dosing. (1st cycle treatment)|AE, The primary outcome for Phase I dose confirmation stage, ICF signed till 28days after end of treatment|Disease Control Rate (DCR), The primary outcome for Phase II (rate of complete response(CR)+partial response (PR)+stable disease(SD)), subject enrolled till disease progress estimate 6 months after first dosing.
DCR, The secondary outcome for Phase I (rate of CR+PR+SD), subject enrolled till disease progress estimate 6 months after first dosing.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The secondary outcome for Phase I/II (rate of CR+PR), subject enrolled till disease progress estimate 6 months after first dosing.|Progress Free Survival(PFS), The secondary outcome for Phase I/II, enrolled study till first disease progress estimate 6 months after first dosing.|Peak Plasma Concentration （Cmax）, The secondary outcome for Phase I dose escalation stage including: Cmax for PT-112., collect PK blood sample in first and second cycles (28 and 56 days after 1st dosing)|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), The secondary outcome for Phase I dose escalation stage including: AUC for PT-112., collect PK blood sample in first and second cycles (28 and 56 days after 1st dosing)|Peak time （Tmax）, The secondary outcome for Phase I dose escalation stage including: Tmax for PT-112, collect PK blood sample in first and second cycles (28 and 56 days after 1st dosing)|AE, The secondary outcome for Phase II, AE from ICF signed till 28days after end of treatment
This is a multicenter, open-label, phase I/II clinical trial that includes the dose escalation stage, dose confirmation stage and phase II stage.

In dose escalation stage, a 3+3 trial design is adopted for dose escalation. Three dose groups are designed: 200, 250 and 300 mg/m2, once weekly; 28 days constitute a period. The drug is intravenously dripped for 60 minutes at the 1st, 8th and 15th day of each period. The safety, tolerability, PK and preliminary antitumor effect of PT-112 injection alone are evaluated. After Dose limited toxicity (DLT) evaluation is completed for all the patients in a dose group, the Safety Monitoring Committee (SMC) will evaluate the safety and PK of the dose group based on the resulting data, and decide whether the dose should be escalated, and whether the dosing regimen or PK sampling points should be adjusted.

After dose escalation is completed, the RP2D is selected by SMC for dose confirmation. Dose confirmation study will include approximately 10 patients each of the following six types of tumors:

Group 1: Hepatocellular carcinoma Group 2: Gastric cancer Group 3: Colorectal cancer Group 4: Non-small cell lung cancer Group 5: Head and neck cancer Group 6: Breast cancer If it is difficult to include the patients with a specific type of tumor, or if the tumor is not sensitive to the efficacy of investigational drug, the SMC may discuss and decide to prematurely terminate inclusion of patients in that group.

After sufficient data are obtained in dose confirmation stage, the SMC may discuss and decide to initiate phase II trial. Phase II trial plans to include about 40 subjects to evaluate the anti-tumor effect and safety of the monotherapy in patients with advanced HCC who have previously received only one systemic anticancer therapy.