Observational Study for Patients With Newly Diagnosed (MCL) Not Eligible for High-dose Therapy
This is an observational study aimed to analyze the effectiveness of treatment of patients with newly dg. mantle cell lymphoma not eligible for high-dose therapy and autologous stem cell transplantation. Scheme of treatment: alternating cycles of R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, hydroxydaunomycin, oncovin, prednison) and R-AraC (rituximab, cytarabin): R-CHOP / R-AraC / R-CHOP / R-AraC / R-CHOP / R-AraC. The study was proposed based on the previously published data in the younger patients, which demonstrated improved outcome after implementation of Ara-C into induction.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
Overall response, PET-CT after induction, and bone marrow examination after induction, After induction for all patients, who can be evaluated; through study completion, an average of 1 year.
Progression-free survival and overall survival, PFS will be calculated from initiation of therapy until lymphoma relapse / progression or death from any cause; OS will be calculated from initiation of therapy until death from any cause, max. 4 years|Minimal residual disease (MRD) by PCR (polymerase chain reaction) after induction, After completion of induction MRD will be evaluated by PCR in the peripheral blood and bone marrow in those patients with available disease markers, i.e. primers detecting the translocation t(11;14) or unique IgVH rearrangement., After induction for all patients, who can be evaluated; through study completion, an average of 1 year.
This is an observational study considered for patients with mantle cell lymphoma meeting the basic inclusion criteria. The study will enrol patients who will be treated according to standard protocol used in the hematologic department. Scheme of treatment: alternating cycles of R-CHOP and R-AraC: R-CHOP / R-AraC / R-CHOP / R-AraC / R-CHOP / R-AraC.

Baseline procedures:

* CT or PET-CT (positron emission tomography with computed tomography)before starting treatment, after 3 cycles and at the end of treatment (after 6 cycles)
* bone marrow examination before therapy, after 3 cycles and after completion of induction
* maintenance rituximab based of standards of each centre

The study was proposed based on the previously published data in the younger patients, which demonstrated improved outcome after implementation of Ara-C into induction.

Primary objectives include response after induction by PET-CT and PFS (progression-free survival).

Secondary objectives include OS (overall survival), and prognostic significance of minimal residual disease detection after completion of induction