Sintilimab With P-GEMOX Versus the P-GEMOX in the Teatment of Advanced-stage Extranodal Natural Killer/T Cell Lymphoma
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma is a rare and highly aggressive subtype of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. While the overall survival rates have improved for early-stage ENKTL patients, the prognosis for those with advanced disease remains poor, and there is currently no standard treatment. PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have demonstrated significant efficacy in various cancers, and recent studies have shown promising results in extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma as well. Although PD-1 antibodies have exhibited efficacy in relapsed or refractory patients, their effectiveness when combined with chemotherapy as a first-line treatment remains unclear. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sintilimab combined with chemotherapy in a randomized controlled trial for newly diagnosed advanced extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma patients, while also exploring potential biomarkers that may predict treatment outcomes, offering new therapeutic options for extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma patients.
Natural Killer/T-Cell Lymphoma, Nasal and Nasal-Type
DRUG: Sintilimab with P-GEMOX Regimen|DRUG: P-GEMOX Regimen
PFS, progression free survival, Up to 4 years
ORR rate, objective response rate, Up to 4 years|CR rate, complete response rate, Up to 4 years|OS, overall survival, Up to 4 years|Adverse events, The incedence of all adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and treatment-related adverse events (TEAEs), Up to 4 years
Extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma is a rare and highly aggressive subtype of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. While the overall survival rates have improved for early-stage ENKTL patients, the prognosis for those with advanced disease remains poor, and there is currently no standard treatment. PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have demonstrated significant efficacy in various cancers, and recent studies have shown promising results in extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma as well. Although PD-1 antibodies have exhibited efficacy in relapsed or refractory patients, their effectiveness when combined with chemotherapy as a first-line treatment remains unclear. This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sintilimab combined with chemotherapy in a randomized controlled trial for newly diagnosed advanced extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma patients, while also exploring potential biomarkers that may predict treatment outcomes, offering new therapeutic options for extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma patients.