Comparison of High-Dose Rate Brachytherapy and Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy as Monotherapy for the Treatment of Localized Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial compares high-dose rate brachytherapy and stereotactic ablative radiotherapy as monotherapy in treating patients with prostate cancer that has not spread to other parts of the body (localized). High-dose rate brachytherapy delivers radiation directly into the prostate within a few minutes by a single radioactive seed through temporarily placed plastic catheters inside the prostate gland. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy is an external beam radiation method that delivers large doses of radiation to the cancer in a short period of time, usually 5 treatments. This trial aims to find which of these two approaches is better in terms of patient-reported quality of life.
Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
RADIATION: High-Dose Rate Brachytherapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy
Feasibility of comparing stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) and high-dose rate brachytherapy (HDRB), Feasibility is defined as success in enrolling patients, performing the procedures, reporting adverse effects, collecting and managing data across several institutions and patient compliance in completing health-related quality of life questionnaires., 36 months
Changes in patient reported Health-Related Quality of life (HRQoL), Will be assessed by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC)-26 short form at baseline, 1,3,6,9,12,18,24 and 36 months.

The response to each EPIC item is standardized to a 0 to 100 scale, with higher scores representing better quality of life. Each domain is then scored by adding the score of each item within the group divided by the total number of items. Since androgen-deprivation therapy is not permitted in our study, the hormonal score will not be reported. HRQoL scores in the bowel, sexual, urinary incontinence and irritative domains will be evaluated., Baseline up to 36 months|Changes in patient-reported urinary toxicity, Will be assessed by American Urology Association Symptom Score questionnaires (AUA) at baseline, 1,3,6,9,12,18,24 and 36 months.

The AUA evaluates urinary function, 7 questions, total score is 35. The higher the score, the higher rate of urinary toxicity., Baseline up to 36 months|Changes in patient-reported sexual toxicity, Will be assessed by Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) questionnaires at baseline, 1,3,6,9,12,18,24 and 36 months.

The SHIM, score 1-25 lower score reflecting severe erectile dysfunction., Baseline up to 36 months|Incidence of adverse events, Physician-reported adverse events using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 will be reported at baseline, 1,3,6,9,12,18,24 and 36 months at each patient visit., Baseline up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess feasibility of a pilot non-randomized trial evaluating stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) and high-dose rate brachytherapy for localized prostate cancer.

OUTLINE: Patients elect to participate in arms 1 or 2.

ARM I: Patients undergo high-dose rate brachytherapy (HDR).

ARM II: Patients undergo SABR every other day for 5 treatments.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.