Clinical Trial for GALNT14 Genotype - Guided, Sorafenib in Combination With TACE in Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) + sorafenib therapy has been demonstrated to exert a beneficial effective on time-to-tumor-progression (TTP) in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in some studies. However, the beneficial effect varies among studies conducted in different areas of the world. The objectives of this study are (1) to understand whether GALNT14 TT genotype patients respond better than do GALNT14 non-TT genotype patients when treated by TACE; and (2) to understand whether GALNT14 non-TT genotype patients can benefit from TACE plus sorafenib (Nexavar) combination therapy. Patients enrolled will be stratified by GALNT14 genotyping. The GALNT14 "non-TT" patients were then randomized into two subgroups to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of TACE plus sorafenib therapy.

The primary endpoint of this study is the efficacy of TACE with or without sorafenib combination therapy evaluated by complete remission (CR).

The secondary endpoints are:

1. Time to partial or complete response (PR + CR).
2. Time-to-tumor-progression (TTP) and the progression free survival (PFS).
3. Overall survival (OS).
4. Safety and tolerability of TACE plus sorafenib therapy.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: sorafenib|PROCEDURE: TACE
Complete remission, 3 years
Time to partial (including complete) response, 3 years|Time-to-tumor-progression (TTP), 3 years|Progression free survival (PFS)., 3 years|Overall survival (OS), 3 years|Safety and tolerability of TACE plus sorafenib therapy recorded and graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0., 3 years
The strategy of TACE + sorafenib is now being intensively investigated. It is a safe approach with significant beneficial effect on TTP in some studies, but the beneficial effect on OS remains uncertain. In the present study, we hypothesized that the GALNT14 genotype might play a role in this issue. Our pilot study indicated that GALNT14 "TT" genotype was associated with a favorable complete response rate in patients treated by TACE alone. This genotype was present in \~ 25% of Chinese population coming from Taiwan, Colorado (US), or Beijing (China), and in \~ 7% of Italian population. But it was present in \~ 50% of Japanese population. The lower percentage of a TACE - favorable genotype in Chinese and Italian population could explain the different results between Japanese and Chinese/Italian clinical trials. It is possible that in a population with higher percentage of TACE - favorable genotype (GALNT14 "TT"), the beneficial effect of sorafenib adjuvant treatment might not be detected. In this study, we proposed to examine the TACE + sorafenib effect in patients with GALNT14 "non-TT" genotype, a TACE - unfavorable genotype.