Validation of Readiband™ Actigraph and Associated Sleep/Wake Classification Algorithms
This pilot study will assess feasibility and to obtain initial estimates of efficacy of Sleep Activity and Task Effectiveness (SAFTE) model, which can accurately estimate the impact of scheduling factors and sleep history on both safety and productivity. The SAFTE model will be used to asses cancer-related fatigue and study potential associations of change in sleep patterns to tumor recurrence in patients with high grade glioma. Data will be collected using the Readiband™ Sleep Tracker (https://www.fatiguescience.com/sleep-science-technology/). The Readiband device captures high-resolution sleep data, validated against the clinical gold standard of polysomnography with 92% accuracy. Sleep data is transmitted to the cloud automatically for SAFTE Fatigue Model analysis. We will correlate clinical progression data obtained from the patient's electronic medical record with SAFTE data.
Glioma|Glioblastoma
DEVICE: Readiband Sleep Tracking
Correlation between sleep patterns and disease progression/recurrence, An estimate of correlation between sleep patterns in the brain tumor patient population and disease progression or recurrence compared to those of the general population., Participant enrollment to 12 months (or until tumor progression)
Correlation between SAFTE fatigue predictions and self-reported fatigue levels, An estimate of correlation between SAFTE fatigue predictions and self-reported fatigue levels in patients with GBM, Participant enrollment to 12 months (or until tumor progression)|Sleep pattern differences between healthy controls and brain tumor patients, Comparison of differences in sleep patterns in brain tumor patients to those of the general population., Participant enrollment to 12 months (or until tumor progression)|Correlation between fatigue and sleep patterns and treatment tolerance/success, An estimate of correlation between fatigue and sleep patterns and treatment tolerance/success, as determined by MRI imaging and RANO criteria., Participant enrollment to 12 months (or until tumor progression)|Change in Sleep, Activity, Fatigue, and Task Effectiveness (SAFTE) score, Participant enrollment to 12 months (or until tumor progression)
This pilot study will assess feasibility and to obtain initial estimates of efficacy of Sleep Activity and Task Effectiveness (SAFTE) model, which can accurately estimate the impact of scheduling factors and sleep history on both safety and productivity. The SAFTE model will be used to asses cancer-related fatigue and study potential associations of change in sleep patterns to tumor recurrence in patients with high grade glioma. Data will be collected using the Readiband™ Sleep Tracker (https://www.fatiguescience.com/sleep-science-technology/). The Readiband device captures high-resolution sleep data, validated against the clinical gold standard of polysomnography with 92% accuracy. Sleep data is transmitted to the cloud automatically for SAFTE Fatigue Model analysis. We will correlate clinical progression data obtained from the patient's electronic medical record with SAFTE data.