Integration of Neutron Therapy in the Treatment Plan for Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This study is needed to assess the feasibility of integrating this therapy with current treatment regimens. If this study shows success a formal phase II test study to conduct feasibility will be the next step. The first dose level chosen for this study is 66Gy of radiation to the tumor between LET and standard photon therapy. This dose is the current standard of care for stage III . If this dose is found to be feasible then the dose of LET will escalate to the total dose of 74Gy.
Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Chemotherapy - Squamous Cell Histologies|DRUG: Chemotherapy - NSCLC other than squamous cell
Assess Dose levels (DLT & MTD)integrating 2 dose levels of neutron tx in 2 diff regimens of approx 12 pts/trt; If 1st dose level feasible but not 2nd dose level in either cohorts then 12 pts will be trted at 1st dose level for that particular cohort, Lab value chgs (CBC w/diff, electrolytes, serum cr., calc. cr. clearance, bilirubin, AST, ALT, ca, mg, LDH, albumin)\& for AE's-wks. 2, 5, 6, 8 \& 1 mth. after therapy. Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT): Gr 3/4 non-hematologic tox that is trtment related; Gr 4 thrombocytopenia, Gr 3/4 neutropenic fever or gr 4 neutropenia lasting \> 7 days. Assess 2 dose levels, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of neutron therapy-dose at which \< 33% of the pts. experience DLT., up to one month after therapy
To assess the Progression Free Survival (PFS), and response rate in these patients., CT scan of the chest to assess the status of the cancer within 30 days of completion of therapy. If the patient has had complete or partial response, then a repeat scan no sooner than 4 weeks should be done to confirm the response.|To assess the expression of p16 expression, ERCC1 and TS expression in tumors of enrolled patients and assess the correlation of these markers with response rate and progression free survival., Archival tissue samples collected at baseline will be assessed at baseline & 1 month after therapy
This study is needed to assess the feasibility of integrating this therapy with current treatment regimens. If this study shows success a formal phase II test study to conduct feasibility will be the next step. The first dose level chosen for this study is 66Gy of radiation to the tumor between LET and standard photon therapy. This dose is the current standard of care for stage III . If this dose is found to be feasible then the dose of LET will escalate to the total dose of 74Gy.