Vemurafenib With Sorafenib Tosylate or Crizotinib in Treating Patients With Advanced Malignancies With BRAF Mutations
This phase I clinical trial studies vemurafenib with sorafenib tosylate or crizotinib in treating patients with advanced malignancies with BRAF mutations. Sorafenib tosylate and crizotinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Sorafenib tosylate may also stop the growth of advanced malignancies by blocking blood flow to tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vemurafenib, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving vemurafenib together with sorafenib tosylate or crizotinib may kill more cancer cells.
Advanced Malignant Neoplasm|BRAF Gene Mutation|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Neoplasm
DRUG: Crizotinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate|DRUG: Vemurafenib
Maximum tolerated dose of vemurafenib and sorafenib tosylate or crizotinib, defined as the highest dose studied in which the incidence of dose limiting toxicity was less than 33%, 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of sorafenib tosylate (sorafenib) or crizotinib in combination with vemurafenib in patients with advanced cancers who progressed on standard therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Preliminary assessment of antitumor efficacy of sorafenib or crizotinib combination with vemurafenib in patients with advanced cancers.

II. Preliminary assessment of the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of sorafenib or crizotinib in combination with vemurafenib.

III. Preliminary assessment of biomarkers.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vemurafenib and sorafenib tosylate. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms by their physician.

ARM I: Patients receive vemurafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and sorafenib tosylate PO BID on days 1-28.

ARM II: Patients receive vemurafenib as in Arm I and crizotinib PO once daily (QD) or BID on days 1-28.

In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.