Vaccine for Patients With Newly Diagnosed or Recurrent Low-Grade Glioma
The primary purpose of this phase II clinical trial is to determine the safety and effect on survival of patients autologous dendritic cells pulsed with autologous tumor lysate as a treatment for low-grade glioma patients. Other goals of this study are to determine if the vaccine can cause an immune response against patients' cancer cells and slow the growth of their brain tumors
Adult Diffuse Astrocytoma|Adult Mixed Glioma|Adult Oligodendroglioma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor|Adult Oligoastrocytoma
BIOLOGICAL: tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival (PFS) of Low Grade Glioma Patients Treated With Autologous Dendritic Cells Pulsed With Autologous Tumor Lysate, a Kaplan-Meier curve of the PFS of our trial patients was created and compared to the PFS of control patients matched for tumor grade, recurrence number, IDH1 status and 1p/19q status., Each case was assessed from the baseline date of surgery to MRI evidence of tumor progression through study completion, up to 44 months.
Overall Survival (OS), From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 100 months. a Kaplan-Meier curve of the OS of our trial patients was created and compared to the OS of control patients matched for tumor grade, recurrence number, IDH1 status and 1p/19q status., The timeframe for OS was from the date of surgery until the date of death from any cause, up to 44 months.|Anti-tumor Immune Responses, Tumor and peripheral blood samples were collected from each of the participants and analyzed for the following biomarkers:

IDH1-specific antibodies CD8, PD-1, and PD-L1 content, and correlations among those three biomarkers Mutation analysis/sequencing, Tumor for analysis (CD8, Programmed Death (PD)-1, PD-L1, mutation analysis) was collected at the vaccine-related surgery shortly after enrollment. Blood for analysis (IDH1-specific antibodies) was collected at Day 0, before the first vaccine injection.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the 5-year progression-free survival (PFS), using intradermal injections of autologous dendritic cells harvested from peripheral blood precursors and pulsed (co-cultured) with tumor lysate derived from surgical tissues in patients with low-grade gliomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To monitor overall survival (OS), and cellular immune responses in brain tumor patients injected with tumor lysate-pulsed dendritic cells.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tumor lysate-pulsed autologous dendritic cell vaccine intradermally (ID) on days 0, 14, and 28.