A Trial to Evaluate the Potential Benefit of Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Small Bowel Adenocarcinoma
An open-label, randomised, controlled, multi-centre, trial with disease free survival as the primary end point. The worldwide collaboration is referred to as GLOBAL BALLAD and consists of a number of individual parallel prospective studies addressing the same objectives with similar designs brought together under the framework of the International Rare Cancer Initiative. This protocol is for BALLAD BELGIUM, which is the component of GLOBAL BALLAD.
Small Bowel Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Fluoropyrimidine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
efficacy assessed by the 3-year Disease-free survival, This is defined as time from randomisation to the first occurrence of the following events:

* Disease relapse (confirmed by imaging)
* Incidence of a new primary (confirmed by imaging and histology/cytology)
* Death from any cause, 3 years from randomisation
efficacy assessed by the overall survival, The patient's survival status is determined at each follow-up visit. After the mandated clinic visits survival status data will come from responsible cancer centres, cancer registries and national databases and include long-term passive follow-up data., 5 years from randomisation|safety assessed by the toxicity of chemotherapy, Toxicity will be assessed using CTCAE version 4.0. Only toxicities that are at least grade 2 will be recorded on the CRF, until 1 month after treatment|quality of life as assessed using the EORTC (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30, This will be completed at 9, 12, 18 and 24 months post randomisation for all arms of the trial. Minimum and maximum values do not apply for this scale., until end of study, up to 5 years from randomisation|quality of life as assessed using the EORTC (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer) Quality of Life Questionnaire Colo-Rectal module 29, This will be completed at 9, 12, 18 and 24 months post randomisation for all arms of the trial. Minimum and maximum values do not apply for this scale., until end of study, up to 5 years from randomisation|quality of life as assessed using the EuroQol 5 dimension scale (EQ-5D), This will be completed at 9, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48, 60 72 and 84 months post randomisation for all arms of the trial. Minimum and maximum values do not apply for this scale., until end of study, up to 5 years from randomisation|Exploratory: clinical applicability of the study results assessed by the translational research on blood and tissue, The aim is to establish a biobank of SBA tissue and blood with complete and comprehensive trial quality follow-up data which may act as the foundation for many future collaborative research projects and for combined projects with other funded tissue collections., Will be collected at the end of study, up to 5 years from randomisation
The utility of adjuvant chemotherapy in the management of Small Bowel Adenocarcinoma (SBA) remains unproven and awaits the results of a large, global, prospective, phase III, randomised, controlled trial. Across the 830 million population of North America and Europe, there are approximately 3,000 patients with R0 resected and potentially cured SBA every year who would be potentially eligible for such an adjuvant chemotherapy trial.

Given the absence of good-quality and evidence-based data, it has been agreed that a trial considering adjuvant chemotherapy versus no chemotherapy was appropriate for patients with stage I-IV SBA in whom the oncologist and patient feel that the benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy is uncertain. For those patients with stage I-IV SBA who, with their oncologists, feel that the potential benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy is certain (and hence are not willing to accept randomisation to the 'no chemotherapy' arm), a randomisation between single agent fluoropyrimidine versus doublet fluoropyrimidine and oxaliplatin chemotherapy will be offered. Tumour stage will be used as a stratification factor. Those patients who do not consent to be randomised will be offered registration to allow collection of demographic, clinicopathological, epidemiological and survival data, thereby making optimal use of the rare patient population available. In addition, archival Formalin Fixed Paraffin Embedded (FFPE) tissue and contemporaneous venous blood samples will be collected from every registered patient to allow molecular profiling and future translational research. A questionnaire about underlying risk factors (e.g. Crohn's disease, coeliac disease, Lynch syndrome etc) will be completed along with the other collected data on all registered patients.

The trial hypotheses are that:

1. Adjuvant chemotherapy results in an improved outcome (DFS and OS) over observation alone after potentially curative R0 surgery for stage I, II, III and IV SBA
2. Adjuvant fluoropyrimidine and oxaliplatin chemotherapy results in an improved outcome (DFS and OS) over fluropyrimidine alone after potentially curative R0 surgery for stage I, II, III and IV SBA.