Social Media Listening in Improving Clinical Trial Recruitment in Patients With Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies how well social media listening works in improving clinical trial recruitment in patients with cancer. Social media listening and recruitment on Twitter may enhance enrollment for cancer-related clinical trials.
Breast Carcinoma|Colon Carcinoma|Kidney Carcinoma|Lymphoma|Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
User acceptance and satisfaction with social media (SM) as a recruitment method, A questionnaire will be used assess the acceptance of and satisfaction with SM recruitment method among University of Southern California (USC) Norris study team members and Twitter users in Los Angeles (LA) county., Up to 14 months|Accrual rate, To be determined by comparing monthly actual versus (vs.) projected rate of recruitment for the trial disease groups (i.e., non-small cell lung cancer, colon cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer, kidney cancer, lymphoma) using generalized estimating equations, accounting for intra-disease random effects and trends across the 12 months (9 months exposure per trial). These results will then be put into context of the historic recruitment for these diseases at the center., Up to 14 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine the feasibility (acceptance among University of Southern California \[USC\] Norris study team members and Twitter users in Los Angeles \[LA\] county) of targeted social media listening (SML) via Twitter as a tool for enhancing recruitment to cancer trials.

II. Gain preliminary data on the impact (i.e., numbers recruited versus projected accrual compared to historic recruitment) of targeted social media listening (SML) as a tool for enhancing recruitment to cancer trials among Twitter users in LA county.

III. Estimate the effect size of the number of people enrolled associated with the use of targeted social media listening (SML) via Twitter as a tool for enhancing recruitment to cancer trials.

OUTLINE:

Patients who mention specific cancer disease keywords and/or hashtags are identified and receive a message via Twitter. Patients are then contacted for recruitment into a clinical trial.