Prospective Observational Basket Study of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy for OligoMetastatic Patients From Rare Tumors
This prospective observational study aims to investigate the effectiveness and safety of SBRT in the management of oligometastases from rare tumors. In addition, the study aims to identify potential differences in treatment efficacy and toxicity between different types of cancer and to provide valuable information on the use of SBRT in these contexts, potentially leading to better treatment options and outcomes for these patients.
Oligometastatic Disease
RADIATION: SBRT
local control of treated metastases at 2 years after SBRT, local control of treated metastases at 2 years after SBRT, 2 years
overall survival, overall survival, 2 years|progression-free survival, time for which the patient has no trace oligometastatic progression, 2 years|distant control, analyze the formation of new metastases distant from the oligometastatic site, 2 years|toxicity rates, toxicity values caused by SBRT, 2 years|quality of life of patients, will also be assessed using validated patient-reported outcome measures, 2 years
Oligometastases, defined as limited number of metastases (commonly from one up to five), are increasingly recognized as a distinct clinical entity in cancer management. Recently, the collaboration of experts from ESTRO and EORTC societies elaborated a consensus document and recommended a classification of oligometastatic patients into specific subcategories, according to 17 disease characterization factors and 5 different questions. Emerging evidence suggests that local treatment of oligometastases with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) can achieve excellent local control with minimal toxicity.

Indeed, the majority of clinical trials investigating the use of SBRT for oligometastases have focused on common solid tumors. There is limited data on the use of SBRT for oligometastases from rare primary tumors such as melanoma, soft tissue sarcoma, head-neck tumors, gynaecological tumors, Merkel cell carcinoma, thymic carcinoma, gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) and urothelial tumors. Additionally, patients with rare tumors often have limited treatment options, and thus, the use of metastases-directed SBRT may provide a potential curative treatment option for these patients.

The use of SBRT for oligometastases from rare tumors is promising, as local control rates have been reported to be high, and the toxicity profile favorable. Additionally, patients with rare tumors often have limited treatment options, and thus, the use of metastases-directed SBRT may provide a potential curative treatment option for these patients. By investigating multiple rare tumor types within one trial, this study aims to identify potential differences in treatment efficacy and toxicity among the different tumor types, and to provide valuable insights into the use of SBRT in this setting, potentially leading to improved treatment options and outcomes for these patients.