Palbociclib Isethionate in Treating Younger Patients With Recurrent, Progressive, or Refractory Central Nervous System Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of palbociclib isethionate in treating younger patients with central nervous system tumors that have grown, come back, or not responded to treatment. Palbociclib isethionate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Childhood Choroid Plexus Tumor|Childhood Ependymoblastoma|Childhood Grade III Meningioma|Childhood High-grade Cerebellar Astrocytoma|Childhood High-grade Cerebral Astrocytoma|Childhood Medulloepithelioma|Recurrent Childhood Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Recurrent Childhood Brain Stem Glioma|Recurrent Childhood Cerebellar Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Cerebral Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Recurrent Childhood Glioblastoma|Recurrent Childhood Gliomatosis Cerebri|Recurrent Childhood Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Childhood Pineoblastoma|Recurrent Childhood Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor
DRUG: palbociclib isethionate|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Palbociclib in Stratum I, Rolling-6 design was used to estimate MTD. The MTD was empirically defined as the highest dose level at which six patients were treated with at most one patient experiencing a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and the next higher dose level had been determined to be too toxic. Stratum I consisted of less-heavily pre-treated patients., 4 weeks|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Palbociclib in Stratum II, Rolling-6 design was used to estimate MTD. The MTD was empirically defined as the highest dose level at which six patients were treated with at most one patient experiencing a DLT and the next higher dose level had been determined to be too toxic. Stratum II consisted of heavily pre-treated patients., 4 weeks|Number of Patients Who Experienced Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLTs were defined as any of the following adverse events that were at least possibly related to palbociclib that occurred during the first 4 weeks of therapy regardless of expectedness. Hematologic DLTs included grade 3 neutropenia with fever and sepsis, grade 3 thrombocytopenia and/or requiring a platelet transfusion on 2 separate days within a 7-day period, or any grade 4 hematologic toxicity except lymphopenia. Non-hematologic DLTs included any grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity, any grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity with some exceptions (e.g., nausea and vomiting of \< 5 days; diarrhea and/or electrolyte disturbances which have not been maximally treated; AST/ALT elevation that returns to levels meeting eligibility criteria within 7 days of study drug interruption and does not recur upon restarting drug), or any grade 2 non-hematologic toxicity that persists for \> 7 days and is considered medically significant or sufficiently intolerable by patients requires treatment interruption., 4 weeks|Single Dose Apparent Volume of Central Compartment (Vc/F), On day 1 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, 24 (±4), 48 (±4) hours after the oral dose of palbociclib. Apparent volume of central compartment (Vc/F) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 3|Single Dose Elimination Rate Constant (Ke), On day 1 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, 24 (±4), 48 (±4) hours after the oral dose of palbociclib. Elimination rate constant (Ke) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 3|Single Dose Half-life (t1/2), On day 1 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, 24 (±4), 48 (±4) hours after the oral dose of palbociclib. Half-life (t1/2) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 3|Single Dose Apparent Oral Clearance (CL/F), On day 1 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, 24 (±4), 48 (±4) hours after the oral dose of palbociclib. Apparent oral clearance (CL/F) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 3|Single Dose Area Under the Plasma Concentration Time Curve (AUC), On day 1 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, 24 (±4), 48 (±4) hours after the oral dose of palbociclib. Area under the plasma concentration time curve (AUC) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 3|Steady State Apparent Volume of Central Compartment (Vc/F), On day 21 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, and 24 (±4) hours after the dose. Apparent volume of central compartment (Vc/F) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 22|Steady State Elimination Rate Constant (Ke), On day 21 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, and 24 (±4) hours after the dose. Elimination rate constant (Ke) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 22|Steady State Half-life (t1/2), On day 21 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, and 24 (±4) hours after the dose. Half-life (t1/2) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 22|Steady State Apparent Oral Clearance (CL/F), On day 21 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, and 24 (±4) hours after the dose. Apparent oral clearance (CL/F) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 22|Steady State Area Under the Plasma Concentration Time Curve (AUC), On day 21 of course 1, series blood samples for palbociclib pharmacokinetic studies were collected at pre-dose, 1, 2, 4, 8 (±1), 10 (±0.5) optional, and 24 (±4) hours after the dose. Area under the plasma concentration time curve (AUC) was estimated using a non-compartmental method., Up to day 22
Number of Subjects With Objective Responses, Objective responses included complete response (CR) and partial response (PR)., Up to 2 years|Association Between Neutropenia and Single Dose Palbociclib AUC, Neutrophil count decreased adverse events observed in course 1 that were at least possibly attributable to palbociclib were included in analysis. Based on the highest toxicity grade reported, all participants, irrespective of their dose level or stratum, were combined and classified into three categories: 0 = no toxicity reported, 1 = grade 1 or 2, and 2 = grade 3 or 4. Association between neutrophil count decreased and single dose palbociclib AUC for all participants was examined., Up to approximately 4 weeks|Association Between Lymphopenia and Single Dose Palbociclib AUC, Lymphocyte count decreased adverse events observed in course 1 that were at least possibly attributable to palbociclib were included in analysis. Based on the highest toxicity grade reported, all participants, irrespective of their dose level or stratum, were combined and classified into three categories: 0 = no toxicity reported, 1 = grade 1 or 2, and 2 = grade 3 or 4. Association between Lymphocyte count decreased and single dose palbociclib AUC for all participants was examined., Up to approximately 4 weeks|Association Between Leukopenia and Single Dose Palbociclib AUC, White blood cell count decreased adverse events observed in course 1 that were at least possibly attributable to palbociclib were included in analysis. Based on the highest toxicity grade reported, all participants, irrespective of their dose level or stratum, were combined and classified into three categories: 0 = no toxicity reported, 1 = grade 1 or 2, and 2 = grade 3 or 4. Association between white blood cell count decreased and single dose palbociclib AUC for all participants was examined., Up to approximately 4 weeks
Number of Subjects With Cyclin-dependent Kinase-4 (CDK4) Copy Number Variations, CDK4 is a key component in signaling pathways inside normal cells and cancer cells. CDK4 copy number variations were to be assessed by array comparative genomic hybridization in available tumor tissues from consenting patients., At enrollment|Number of Subjects With Cyclin-dependent Kinase-6 (CDK6) Copy Number Variations, CDK6 is a key component in signaling pathways inside normal cells and cancer cells. CDK6 copy number variations were to be assessed by array comparative genomic hybridization in available tumor tissues from consenting patients., At enrollment|Number of Subjects With Cyclin D1 Copy Number Variations, Cyclin D1 is a key component in signaling pathways inside normal cells and cancer cells. Cyclin D1 copy number variations were to be assessed by array comparative genomic hybridization in available tumor tissues from consenting patients., At enrollment|Number of Subjects With Cyclin D2 Copy Number Variations, Cyclin D2 is a key component in signaling pathways inside normal cells and cancer cells. Cyclin D2 copy number variations were to be assessed by array comparative genomic hybridization in available tumor tissues from consenting patients., At enrollment|Number of Subjects With Cyclin D3 Copy Number Variations, Cyclin D3 is a key component in signaling pathways inside normal cells and cancer cells. Cyclin D3 copy number variations were to be assessed by array comparative genomic hybridization in available tumor tissues from consenting patients., At enrollment|Number of Subjects With Ink4a-ARF Loss Copy Number Variations, Ink4a-ARF is a key component in signaling pathways inside normal cells and cancer cells. Ink4a-ARF loss copy number variations were to be assessed by array comparative genomic hybridization in available tumor tissues from consenting patients., At enrollment|Polymorphisms in Efflux-transporter Proteins P-glycoprotein (P-gp; ABCB1), Polymorphisms in ABCB1 encode for efflux-transporter proteins P-glycoprotein (P-gp), for which palbociclib has been shown as a substrate. Genomic DNA was to be isolated from peripheral blood samples from consenting patients to determine ABCB1 polymorphisms., At enrollment|Polymorphisms in Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP; ABCG2), Polymorphisms in ABCG2 encode for BCRP, for which palbociclib has been shown as a substrate. Genomic DNA was to be isolated from peripheral blood samples from consenting patients to determine ABCG2 polymorphisms., At enrollment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/phase II recommended dose and describe toxicities related to PD-0332991 (palbociclib isethionate) in children with retinoblastoma protein 1 (Rb1) positive recurrent, progressive or refractory primary central nervous system (CNS) tumors.

II. To determine plasma pharmacokinetics of PD-0332991 in children with Rb1positive recurrent, progressive or refractory primary CNS tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To record preliminary evidence of efficacy of PD-0332991 in children with recurrent CNS tumors.

II. To evaluate cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK)4/6, cyclin D1-3, Ink4a-ARF copy-number variations in available tumor tissue by array comparative, genomic hybridization (aCGH).

III. To explore the potential relationships between the pharmacokinetics of PD-0332991 and pharmacodynamic response (e.g. percentage change in absolute neutrophil count \[ANC\], platelet counts).

IV. To explore the pharmacogenetic polymorphisms in PD-0332991 metabolizing enzymes and transporters and relate these polymorphisms to PD-0332991 pharmacokinetics.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive palbociclib isethionate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 26 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.