Safety and Efficacy Study of TVGV-1 Vaccine to Treat HPV Induced Cervical HSIL
The purpose of this research study is to test the safety and effectiveness of the investigational study vaccine, called TVGV-1. The study will test the vaccine in women with high grade HPV cervical infection.
Human Papillomavirus|High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions
BIOLOGICAL: TVGV-1|BIOLOGICAL: GPI-0100|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo
Absence of histologic HSIL (CIN2/3) as assessed by biopsy at last study Visit 11, Day 270., The primary analysis for efficacy will be a comparison between subjects treated with and without the PEK fusion protein with respect to the percentage who present regression of HSIL at Day 270. Separate comparisons within each cohort will be performed using Fisher's exact test (or an appropriate analogue). No adjustment for multiple comparisons will be employed in these analyses. Additionally, a corresponding comparison across all study subjects combined will be performed, based on Cochran-Matel-Haenszel test stratified for cohort., DAY 270|Assessment of cutaneous toxicities (i.e., size, induration and time to resolution of skin reactions to vaccine)., Summaries of the data pertaining to the primary safety outcome of skin toxicity will be provided. Summaries will be provided for the within-cohort subsets of subjects treated with the active, and with the adjuvant alone; and the combined subsets across all three cohorts of subject treated with the active, with the adjuvant alone, and with the placebo. Serious adverse events will be described in narrative with the participant's demographics, treatment date, event, onset date, relationship to the study treatment and the descriptions of the actions and outcomes during this event. Any deaths occurring in the study will be summarized in narrative with the demographics, treatment duration, cause of death, date of death and additional information surrounding that serious adverse event., DAY 270
Absence of HPV16 in cervical cytological specimen. Absence of cervical dysplasia 6 months and 8 months after last dose of TVGV-1., The primary analysis for efficacy will be a comparison between subjects treated with and without the PEK fusion protein with respect to the percentage who present regression of HSIL at Day 270. Separate comparisons within each cohort will be performed using Fisher's exact test (or an appropriate analogue). No adjustment for multiple comparisons will be employed in these analyses. Additionally, a corresponding comparison across all study subjects combined will be performed, based on Cochran-Matel-Haenszel test stratified for cohort., DAY 270|Assessment of clinical or laboratory findings and other safety variables., Appropriate laboratory data will be transformed prior to analysis as defined in the Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP). Summaries will be presented for each evaluation time point, as well as for changes from baseline. Changes from baseline will also be presented using shift tables for selected laboratory parameters., DAy 270
The purpose of the Phase 2a Study VAX 02-01 is to assess the safety and activity of TVGV-1 vaccine construct in achieving the absence of histologic HSIL (CIN2/3) (regression to LSIL or less) as assessed by biopsy at last study Visit 11, Day 270.

The objective of the TVGV-1 program is to develop a non-surgical alternative that is reliable, safe, and would avoid potential surgical risks such as preterm birth, perinatal mortality, risk of infertility, incontinence and disfigurement, as well as reduced cost and inconvenience for an otherwise economically productive young subject population.