A Simultaneous Treatment Regimen Compared to a Sequential Treatment Regimen With Ingenol Mebutate Gel 0.015% and 0.05% of Two Areas With Actinic Keratosis on Face/Scalp and Trunk/Extremities
The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the safety of a simultaneous treatment regimen compared to a sequential treatment regimen when two separate areas with AKs (one located on face/scalp and the other located on trunk/ extremities) are treated with ingenol mebutate gel
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: Ingenol mebutate gel 0.05 %|DRUG: Ingenol mebutate gel 0.015 %
Composite Local Skin Reaction (LSR) Score 3 Days After Treatment of Each Selected Treatment Area, Composite Local Skin Reaction (LSR) score 3 days after treatment of each selected treatment area in both treatment groups (simultaneous or sequential). The composite LSR score (0 to 24), reflecting the sum of the individual LSR grades (erythema, flaking/scaling, crusting, swelling, vesiculation/pustulation, and erosion/ulceration, grade 0 to 4), was calculated for each selected treatment area at each visit.The composite LSR score ranges from 0 (best possible outcome) to 24 (worst possible outcome). Both affected areas were calculated together "Per Arm". Each subject could contribute with up to 2 values (1 for each treated area)., 3 days after treatment of each selected treatment area
Complete Clearance of AKs in Each Separate Treatment Area 8 Weeks After Treatment, Complete clearance of Actinic Keratosis lesions (AKs) analysed in each separate treatment area and presented by treatment regimen given as "percentage of participants" with complete AK clearance. Each subject could contribute with up to 2 values (1 for each treated area). Both affected areas were calculated together "Per Arm" (e.g. "averaged")., 8 weeks after treatment|Partial Clearance of AKs in Each Separate Treatment Area 8 Weeks After Treatment, Partial clearance of Actinic Keratosis lesions (AKs) defined as 75% or greater reduction in Actinic Keratosis lesions (AKs) from start of treatment to 8 weeks after treatment, was analysed in each separate treatment area and presented by treatment regimen given as "percentage of participatns" with complete AK clearance. Each subject could contribute with up to 2 values (1 for each treated area). Both affected areas were calculated together "Per Arm" (e.g. "averaged")., 8 weeks after treatment|Percent Reduction in Number of AKs in Each Separate Treatment Area 8 Weeks After Treatment, Percent reduction in number of Actinic Keratosis lesions (AKs) analysed for each separate treatment area and presented by treatment regimen. Each subject could contribute with up to 2 values (1 for each treated area). Both affected areas were calculated together "Per Arm" (e.g. "averaged")., 8 weeks after treatment|Effectiveness Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication (TSQM), Effectiveness TSQM After a Treatment Cycle of 8 Weeks. Measurement of the perceived effectiveness of medication, ranging from 0 (worst possible outcome) to 100 (best possible outcome)., 8 weeks|Side Effects TSQM, Side Effects TSQM After a Treatment Cycle of 8 Weeks. Measurement of the perceived side effects of medication, ranging from 0 (worst possible outcome) to 100 (best possible outcome)., 8 weeks|Global Satisfaction TSQM, Global Satisfaction TSQM After a Treatment Cycle of 8 Weeks. Measurement of the perceived overall satisfaction with medication, ranging from 0 (worst possible outcome) to 100 (best possible outcome)., 8 weeks|Convenience TSQM, Convenience TSQM After a Treatment Cycle of 8 Weeks. Measurement of the perceived convenience with medication, ranging from 0 (worst possible outcome) to 100 (best possible outcome)., 8 weeks
The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the safety of a simultaneous treatment regimen compared to a sequential treatment regimen when two separate areas with AKs (one located on face/scalp and the other located on trunk/ extremities) are treated with ingenol mebutate gel