Impact of Risk for OSA in Lung Cancer
Background: Previous studies have reported that intermittent hypoxia in obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with tumor progression, metastasis and treatment outcomes. However, studies explaining the relationships between specific types of cancer and OSA are needed. In this study, it is aimed to show the effect of excessive daytime sleepiness as determined by Epworth sleepiness scale(ESS) and the effect of OSA risk determined by STOP BANG questionnaire on survival and treatment outcomes in lung cancer.

Method: The patients who admit the palliative care outpatient clinic of our hospital with the diagnosis of lung cancer (stage 3 and stage 4 non-small cell lung cancer or limited / extensive stage small cell lung cancer) between July 2019-2020 will be assessed for excessive daytime sleepiness(EDS) and risk of obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) by Epworth sleepiness scale and the STOP-BANG questionnaire. The patients will be grouped according to the risk of OSA and EDS.Total / progression-free survival, treatment outcomes and side effects of the treatment will be evaluated comparatively.
Obstructive Sleep Apnea|Lung Cancer
OTHER: STOP- BANG Questionnaire and Epworth sleepiness scale
STOP-BANG questionnaire, OSA - Low Risk : Yes to 0 - 2 questions OSA - Intermediate Risk : Yes to 3 - 4 questions OSA - High Risk : Yes to 5 - 8 questions or Yes to 2 or more of 4 STOP questions + male gender or Yes to 2 or more of 4 STOP questions + BMI \> 35kg/m2 or Yes to 2 or more of 4 STOP questions + neck circumference 17 inches / 43cm in male or 16 inches / 41cm in female, Up to 4 months from the initial diagnosis of lung cancer (the patients who has not initiated or has not finished the first line therapy )|Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) is a self-administered questionnaire with 8 questions by which daytime sleepiness in eight different activities is assessed on a 4-point scale (0-3). The ESS score can range from 0 to 24. The higher the ESS score, the higher that person's 'daytime sleepiness'. ESS score ≥ 10 will be used to indicate excessive daytime sleepiness., Up to 4 months from the initial diagnosis of lung cancer (the patients who has not initiated or has not finished the first line therapy will be assessed with Epworth Sleepiness Scale)
The patients who admit the palliative care outpatient clinic of our hospital with the diagnosis of lung cancer (stage 3 and stage 4 non-small cell lung cancer or limited / extensive stage small cell lung cancer) between July 2019-2020 prior to the treatment and the patient who has not yet completed the first-line chemotherapy with a weight loss \<10% will be invited to fill the Epworth sleepiness scale and the STOP-BANG questionnaire. Patients' anthropometric measurements (height, weight, BMI, fat-free BMI, neck circumference) will be taken. The treatment outcomes and side-effects in patients with EDS and moderate / high risk for OSA will be compared with patients with low OSA risk. Demographic information (age, gender, smoking history), anthropometric measurements (height, weight, body mass index, fat free body mass index, neck circumference), clinical information (snoring, witnessed apnea, daytime excessive sleep presence of symptoms of symptoms, pulmonary function tests, radiological TNM stages, diagnostic method, diagnosis date, fiberoptic bronchoscopy findings, ECOG performance status, treatment results, treatment-related side effects) laboratory values (complete blood count results albumin, lactate dehydrogenase level) and the results of Epworth sleepiness scale and of STOP-BANG questionnaire will be recorded.