Voxel Based Diffusion Tensor Imaging in Predicting Response in Patients With Brain Metastases Undergoing Whole Brain Radiation Therapy or Stereotactic Radiosurgery
This pilot clinical trial studies how well voxel based diffusion tensor imaging in predicting response in patients with brain metastases undergoing whole-brain radiation therapy or stereotactic radiosurgery. Voxel based diffusion tensor imaging (VB-DTI) may allow doctors to measure response to whole brain radiation therapy or stereotactic radiosurgery earlier than is possible with a standard magnetic resonance imaging. The earlier ability to measure response may allow for consideration of alternative therapies at an earlier stage.
Tumors Metastatic to Brain|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
PROCEDURE: diffusion tensor imaging|RADIATION: whole-brain radiation therapy|RADIATION: stereotactic radiosurgery|PROCEDURE: contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging|PROCEDURE: diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging
Percentage of voxel-based mean apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) increase per lesion, Up to 3 years|Volume fraction of voxels showing treatment-related VB-DTI changes for each lesion, Spearman's rank analysis will be used to determine if a correlation exists between the volume fraction of voxels showing treatment-related VB-DTI changes and the volumetric radiographic response for each lesion. Statistical significance will be achieved with a p value \< 0.05., At 4 months|Volumetric radiographic response for each lesion, Spearman's rank analysis will be used to determine if a correlation exists between the volume fraction of voxels showing treatment-related VB-DTI changes and the volumetric radiographic response for each lesion. Statistical significance will be achieved with a p value \< 0.05. Statistical significance will be achieved with a p value \< 0.05., At 4 months|Change in a lesion's overall mean ADC, Spearman's rank analysis will be used to determine if a correlation exists between the volume fraction of voxels showing treatment-related VB-DTI changes and the volumetric radiographic response for each lesion. Statistical significance will be achieved with a p value \< 0.05. Statistical significance will be achieved with a p value \< 0.05., Baseline to 4 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if voxel based diffusion tensor imaging will provide an early predictive assessment of therapy response, as compared to radiographic volumetric response criteria.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergoing whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) for a total of 10 fractions also undergo VB-DTI magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline, 1 week after WBRT initiation, and 7-11 days after completion of WBRT. Patients undergoing stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) without WBRT also undergo VB-DTI MRI at baseline and 7-11 days after completion of SRS.

After completion of study, patients are followed up every 2 months for 6 months and then every 6 months until death.