Comparison of Treatment of Cervical Intraepithelial Lesions With Imiquimod or LLETZ
Purpose: There are limited data on the success of conservative treatment of high-grade cervical squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) with imiquimod directly compared to standard of treatment with LLETZ. LLETZ as standard treatment is possibly associated with premature labour, higher subfertility rate and a higher rate of spontaneous abortion. Since premature delivery is one of the most important causes of perinatal morbidity and mortality, alternative conservative methods for SIL treatment are constantly being evaluated. The immunomodulator imiquimod is one of the main target compounds for treating HSIL.

Primary objective: to establish the efficacy of treatment with imiquimod (experimental arm) and compare it to the standard treatment with LLETZ (control arm).

Secondary objective:

* incidence and severity of the side effects in both groups;
* need for treatment with LLETZ two years after primary treatment with imiquimod in the experimental arm or re-treatment with LLETZ two years after primary treatment with LLETZ in the control arm;
* modulatory effect of imiquimod on immunoregulatory molecules.

Study design: Single-centre randomized controlled intervention trial.

Study population: 104 women with HSIL (52 in each arm).

Intervention:

- randomization in two arms:

1. Experimental arm (imiquimod): treatment for 16 weeks with 5% imiquimod.
2. Control arm (LLETZ).

Successful treatment in the experimental arm is defined as absence of histological HSIL in diagnostic biopsies at 20-week follow-up (4 weeks after treatment completion) and in the control arm successful treatment is defined as absence of cytological HSIL in cytology 6 months after LLETZ (same as in our national guidelines).
Intraepithelial Neoplasia, Cervical
DRUG: Aldara 5% Topical Cream|PROCEDURE: LLETZ
Treatment efficacy of 5% imiquimod cream for treatment of HSIL compared to standard treatment with LLETZ defined as absence of HSIL in both arms (histological in experimental arm and cytological in control arm)., Defined as following:

* for experimental (imiquimod) treatment arm: absence of histological HSIL (CIN1 or less) in diagnostic biopsies at colposcopy at 20 weeks;
* for control (LLETZ) arm: absence of cytological HSIL at 6 months follow-up., 20 weeks after treatment initiation in experimental arm and 6 months after LLETZ in control arm.
Prevalence and severity of the side effects in both arms., Incidence and severity of side effects scored by the 5th version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) guidelines., 10 weeks and 20 weeks after treatment initiation in experimental arm and 20 weeks after LLETZ in control arm.|Need for LLETZ or repeated LLETZ following primary treatment., The need for treatment with LLETZ two years after primary treatment with imiquimod in the experimental arm or re-treatment with LLETZ two years after primary treatment with LLETZ in the control arm, 2 years after primary treatment.|Immunoregulatory effect of imiquimod., Modulatory effect of imiquimod on immunoregulatory molecules., 2 years after primary treatment.
Imiquimod is one of the target topical drugs for treating HSIL. It is a Toll-like receptor 7 agonist that acts locally so that it induces cellular response, which can aid in the regression of HPV-associated lesions. Imiquimod is currently used for treating genital warts. In vitro studies have shown promising effects in the treatment of several diseases, such as endometrial, cervical and prostate cancer, endometriosis, melanoma, and cervical and vulvar intraepithelial lesions. Clinical studies are however lacking. With this in mind, the aim of our study was to evaluate whether topical treatment of HSIL with imiquimod is comparable to standard treatment with LLETZ. As mentioned in the Brief summary, we have set different outcome measures in the experimental and control arm. The different outcome measures were based on moderate accuracy of PAP smear, therefore in order to minimize potential progression of cervical disease to cancer and to avoid LLETZ and possible overtreatment and to assess as accurately as possible the potential residual disease, colposcopy with biopsies will be performed 4 weeks after treatment with imiquimod is completed (20th week after treatment initiation). Follow up after LLETZ will performed using cytology (PAP smear), which is in concordance with our national guidelines. Biopsies will be performed in case of clinically visible lesions. Secondary outcomes of the study are the incidence and severity of the side effects in both groups, which will be evaluated during and after treatment using the 5th version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) guidelines. Other secondary outcomes, namely the need for treatment with LLETZ two years after primary treatment with imiquimod in the experimental arm or re-treatment with LLETZ two years after primary treatment with LLETZ in the control arm, respectively, and the modulatory effect of imiquimod on immunoregulatory molecules are expected to be available in three years' time after treatment is completed in all patients in both arms.