Effect of Prophylactic TMR and RPNI on Neuroma and Phantom Limb Pain
The purpose of this study is to analyze the efficacy of novel interventions in post-amputation surgical care (specifically Targeted Muscle Reinnervation and Regenerative Peripheral Nerve Interface) on post-amputation pain and functional outcomes at the time of amputation. These novel interventions have been shown to be successful in treating the downstream effects of amputations (pain, phantom limb pain, neuroma pain, etc.), but has not been studied in a randomized manner at the time of amputation.
Amputation|Neuroma Amputation|Phantom Limb Pain|Residual Limbs
PROCEDURE: Targeted Muscle Re-innervation|PROCEDURE: Regenerative Peripheral Nerve Interface|PROCEDURE: Standard Post-Amputation Surgical Care
Incidence of Phantom Limb Pain, The primary outcome measure of the study will the incidence of phantom limb pain in each group over the course of the recovery period., Specifically at the time point 1 year after their primary incisions have healed.
Pain intensity score as measured PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) score, Pain intensity score is measured bv PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Scores via patient questionnaires administered at follow-up visits. Possible scores range from 1-5 where higher scores indicate worse outcome (pain severity)., Until 2 years after incisions have healed.|Pain interference score as measured by PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement information System) questionnaire, Pain interference score as measured by PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement information System) scores via patient questionnaires administered at follow-up visits. Possible scores range from 1-5, where higher scores indicate worse outcome (pain interference)., Until 2 years after incisions have healed.|Pain behavior measured by PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) questionnaire, Pain behavior score measured by PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) questionnaire that pertains to subject social health. Raw summed score from 8 to 40, where 40 represents severely maladaptive pain behavior., Until 2 years after incisions have healed.|Narcotic medical use post-operatively as measured by MME (Morphine Milligram Equivalent) Score, Narcotic medical use post-operatively as measured by MME (Morphine Milligram Equivalent) Score This is a tool to condense and standardize the patient's narcotic pain regimen., Until 2 years after incisions have healed.
The investigators plan a randomized control trial of all eligible patients undergoing major limb amputation at Parkland Memorial Hospital. Eligible patients undergoing an amputation will be consented for all possible interventions and randomized to either receive Targeted Muscle Re-Innervation (TMR), Regenerative Peripheral Nerve Interface (RPNI), or standard post-amputation surgical care at the time of their operation. Key pre-operative data including patient sex, age, BMI, past medical history, past surgical history, medications, allergies, social history, social support systems, exposure to narcotic medication, and reason for amputation will be analyzed. Intra-operatively, patients randomized to the treatment arm will receive TMR or RPNI and the transected nerve ends addressed will be recorded. Post-operative data that will be recorded include hospital stay, complications related to the procedure, complications leading to reoperation, functional results, need for pain medication, incidence of phantom limb pain, incidence of painful neuromas, length of follow-up, and all adverse events/complications. Analyses will be conducted using data obtained from patient medical records from the Parkland Health \& Hospital System.