Fenretinide in Treating Patients With Leukoplakia of the Mouth
RATIONALE: Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain drugs to try to prevent the development of or treat early cancer. Fenretinide may be an effective drug in treating leukoplakia.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of fenretinide in treating patients who have leukoplakia of the mouth.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: fenretinide|DRUG: Placebo
Determine modulation by fenretinide of surrogate endpoint markers of oral mucosal carcinogenesis in patients with oral dysplastic leukoplakia., baseline to 6 months
Determine whether fenretinide will cause significant modulation of intermediate endpoint markers and significant regression of oral dysplastic leukoplakia in this patient population., baseline to 6 months|Compare the ability of fenretinide and placebo to modulate surrogate endpoint biomarkers in this patient population., baseline to 6 months|Document the degree of recurrence of oral dysplastic leukoplakia after the administration of fenretinide, both at the same site and at new sites., baseline to 6 months
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine modulation by fenretinide of surrogate endpoint markers of oral mucosal carcinogenesis in patients with oral dysplastic leukoplakia. II. Determine whether fenretinide will cause significant modulation of intermediate endpoint markers and significant regression of oral dysplastic leukoplakia in this patient population. III. Compare the ability of fenretinide and placebo to modulate surrogate endpoint biomarkers in this patient population. IV. Document the degree of recurrence of oral dysplastic leukoplakia after the administration of fenretinide, both at the same site and at new sites.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms: Arm I: Patients receive oral fenretinide daily (except days 1-3 each month) for 6 months. Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo daily (except days 1-3 each month) for 6 months. Patients then receive oral fenretinide daily (except days 1-3 each month) for 6 months. Patients are followed every 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.