Pilot Study of Raltegravir and Cisplatin in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
The proposed study is a first-in-human pilot of a novel anti-cancer strategy: Metnase inhibition to potentiate DNA damaging chemotherapy. The investigators will conduct serial tumor biopsies in subjects with HNSCC at three timepoints: baseline, after cisplatin, and after cisplatin-raltegravir. The investigators will investigate immunohistochemical expression changes of γH2AX, Chk2, and Annexin V, three biomarkers of DNA damage and apoptosis. The study is designed to identify an intermediate signal of the potentiation of cisplatin chemotherapy by raltegravir in HNSCC, which will justify a future phase I/II study.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: raltegravir and cisplatin
Gene expression modification, Expression changes of three selected tumor biomarkers (DNA damage and apoptosis) will be measured at baseline, after cisplatin alone, and after raltegravir-cisplatin. Tumor biomarkers include pChk2, Annexin V, and metnase., 3 weeks
Clinical activity, Preliminary clinical activity of the combination of raltegravir and cisplatin-based chemotherapy in HNSCC will be measured by RECIST criteria. Patients who elect participation in Part 2 will undergo tumor response assessment in accordance with RECIST 1.1 criteria after every 3 cycles of cisplatin-docetaxel-raltegravir. Response rate after 3 cycles will be reported as applicable.

Preliminary toxicity of the combination of raltegravir and cisplatin-based chemotherapy in HNSCC as measured by the grading system (0-4) of the NCI CTCAE v.4

Baseline Metnase expression in HNSCC., 2 to 6 months|Clinical toxicity, Preliminary toxicity of the combination of raltegravir and cisplatin-based chemotherapy in HNSCC as measured by the grading system (0-4) of the NCI CTCAE v.4, 2 to 6 months|Progression free survival and overall survival, Progression-free and overall survival duration will be measured from entry into the protocol, until death., 2 years|Metnase expression, From biopsy materials, quantitative score generated by Aperio Scanning. Digital photomicrographs will be scored for frequency and intensity., 2 to 6 months
The proposed study is a first-in-human pilot of a novel anti-cancer strategy: Metnase inhibition to potentiate DNA damaging chemotherapy. The investigators will conduct serial tumor biopsies in subjects with HNSCC at three timepoints: baseline, after cisplatin, and after cisplatin-raltegravir. The investigators will investigate immunohistochemical expression changes of γH2AX, Chk2, and Annexin V, three biomarkers of DNA damage and apoptosis. The study is designed to identify an intermediate signal of the potentiation of cisplatin chemotherapy by raltegravir in HNSCC, which will justify a future phase I/II study.