Multidimensional Assessment of Quality of Life, Social and Professional Life and Care Utilization in Patients With Diffuse Large Cell B-cell Lymphoma Treated With CAR-T Cells
Immunotherapy became in recent years a major innovation in the care of cancer patients, with unprecedented improvement in complete response and survival, particularly in hematological cancers. Since 2018, patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma can benefit from immunotherapy based on CAR-T cells (Chimeric Antigenic Receptor - T cells), drugs derived from gene therapy and products from the patient's own T cells. The efficacy of these drugs, their development in more and more indications and in continuous earlier lines of treatment, their unprecedented adverse effects and their very high cost justify the search for predictive factors of efficacy and tolerance in order to optimize their use and benefit the greatest number of eligible patients. A better understanding of quality of life and its determinants in patients who received CAR-T cells could play a major role in predicting efficacy and tolerance. Quality of life data have indeed been deemed insufficient in phase 1-2 trials which have demonstrated the benefit of CAR-T cells in patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) in 3rd line of treatment or more and led to obtaining their marketing authorization. It is therefore necessary to assess the quality of life of patients treated in routine care with CAR-T cells. The European Qualitop project aims, from self-questionnaires, to explore the quality of life during the 2 years following the initiation of immunotherapy with a multidimensional approach integrating genetic factors, lifestyle habits and psychosocial determinants of patients. In this context, the Qualitop CAR-T study is a prospective non-comparative real-life study aimed at describing the multidimensional quality of life, its psychosocial determinants and drug consumption in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL treated with CAR -T cells.
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)|CAR-T Cells Treatment
OTHER: self-administered questionnaires
Change of mean score of FACT-Lym (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lymphoma) quality of life, Baseline (day before chemotherapy of lymphodepletion), Month1, 3, 6, 9, 12 and 18 after injection of CAR-T cells
Immunotherapy became in recent years a major innovation in the care of cancer patients, with unprecedented improvement in complete response and survival, particularly in hematological cancers. Since 2018, patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma can benefit from immunotherapy based on CAR-T cells (Chimeric Antigenic Receptor - T cells), drugs derived from gene therapy and products from the patient's own T cells. The efficacy of these drugs, their development in more and more indications and in continuous earlier lines of treatment, their unprecedented adverse effects and their very high cost justify the search for predictive factors of efficacy and tolerance in order to optimize their use and benefit the greatest number of eligible patients. A better understanding of quality of life and its determinants in patients who received CAR-T cells could play a major role in predicting efficacy and tolerance. Quality of life data have indeed been deemed insufficient in phase 1-2 trials which have demonstrated the benefit of CAR-T cells in patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) in 3rd line of treatment or more and led to obtaining their marketing authorization. It is therefore necessary to assess the quality of life of patients treated in routine care with CAR-T cells. The European Qualitop project aims, from self-questionnaires, to explore the quality of life during the 2 years following the initiation of immunotherapy with a multidimensional approach integrating genetic factors, lifestyle habits and psychosocial determinants of patients. In this context, the Qualitop CAR-T study is a prospective non-comparative real-life study aimed at describing the multidimensional quality of life, its psychosocial determinants and drug consumption in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL treated with CAR -T cells.