Active Immunization of Sibling Bone Marrow Transplant Donors Against Purified Myeloma Protein of the Recipient Undergoing Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation
Both patients and marrow donors are treated on Regimen A; patients then proceed to Regimen B. The following acronyms are used:

ABM Allogeneic Bone Marrow

BU Busulfan, NSC-750

CF Leucovorin calcium, NSC-3590

CTX Cyclophosphamide, NSC-26271

G-CSF Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor (source not specified)

GM-CSF Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor (Hoechst/Immunex), NSC-613795

GVHD Graft-vs.-Host Disease

Mesna Mercaptoethane sulfonate, NSC-113891

MTX Methotrexate, NSC-740

PP Unconjugated Myeloma Immunoglobulin plasma paraprotein, NSC-684150

PP-KLH Myeloma immunoglobulin plasma paraprotein vaccine, NSC-678327, with keyhole limpet hemocyanin

TBI Total-Body Irradiation

TSPA Thiotepa, NSC-6396

Regimen A (Donor and Patient): Vaccine Therapy with Immunoadjuvant. PP-KLH (individual myeloma immunoglobulin plasma paraprotein vaccine prepared from recipient's plasma paraprotein and conjugated with KLH); and PP; with GM-CSF.

Regimen B (Patient): Myeloablative Radiotherapy and 2-Drug Combination Chemotherapy or 2-Drug Combination Myeloablative Chemotherapy followed by Hematopoietic Rescue with Growth Factor Support and GVHD Prophylaxis followed by Vaccine Therapy with Immunoadjuvant. TBI; and CTX/TSPA; or BU/CTX; followed by ABM; with G-CSF; and CYSP; MTX/CF; followed by PP-KLH; with GM-CSF.
Graft vs Host Disease|Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Myeloma Immunoglobulin Idiotype Vaccine-KLH|DRUG: GM-CSF
Multiple Myeloma remains a largely incurable disease with current therapy. Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation provides an opportunity to add the potential antitumor effect of marrow grafts to those of high dose chemotherapy. One potential strategy for enhancing a graft vs. tumor effect without aggravating graft vs. host disease would be to selectively target an immune response against a defined tumor-specific antigen. The idiotype of the rearranged immunoglobulin gene product of a myeloma can serve as a unique tumor-specific antigen for vaccine development. We are testing the hypothesis that tumor antigen-specific immunity can be adoptively transferred to BMT recipients by active immunization of marrow transplant donors with purified myeloma idiotype protein, conjugated to a carrier protein (KLH) and administered with GM-CSF as an immunological adjuvant.

Patients under age 60 with an HLA-matched sibling donor, with minimal prior treatment, defined by less than six months prior chemotherapy, and who are in a minimal residual disease state prior to allogeneic BMT, as defined by the achievement of at least a PR, are eligible. HLA matched sibling donors receive a series of three vaccinations during an eight week period prior to bone marrow harvest. Recipients concurrently receive vaccinations pre-BMT, as well as three booster vaccinations at weeks 12, 16, and 24 post-BMT. Id-KLH (0.5 mg) is administered s.c. GM-CSF (250 micrograms/m(2)) is administered s.c. locally with the vaccine on the day of vaccination and for the three consecutive days following vaccination. The objective of this protocol is to induce cellular and humoral immunity in marrow transplant donors and recipients against the unique idiotype expressed by the recipient's myeloma.