Older Patients With Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer or Colon Cancer
RATIONALE: Learning about changes over time in older patients' ability to function after receiving chemotherapy for breast or colon cancer may help doctors learn about the long-term effects of treatment and plan the best treatment.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying older patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer or colon cancer.
Breast Cancer|Cognitive/Functional Effects|Colorectal Cancer|Psychosocial Effects of Cancer and Its Treatment
BEHAVIORAL: compliance monitoring|DRUG: systemic chemotherapy|OTHER: medical chart review|OTHER: study of socioeconomic and demographic variables|OTHER: survey administration|PROCEDURE: cognitive assessment|PROCEDURE: psychosocial assessment and care
Number of impaired domains on Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA), at baseline and 12 months later.|Chemotherapy adherence as measured by dose reduction, dose delay, and grade 3-5 toxicities, Patients are followed for 1 year for chemotherapy adherence and survival.|Vulnerable Elders Survey scores, at baseline and 12 months later.|Functional decline, at baseline and 12 months later.|Time to death, Patients are followed for 1 year for chemotherapy adherence and survival.
Scores of individual battery of tools included in the CGA, at baseline and 12 months later
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the correlation between the Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES-13) and the battery of Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment tools among breast and colon cancer patients, 65 years and older, in an outpatient setting.
* Assess and compare the abilities of the VES-13 and the battery of Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment tools to predict chemotherapy adherence among these patients.
* Examine the validity of the VES-13 screening tool to identify increased risk of death from all causes at one year after initial VES-13 screening in these patients.
* Examine the validity of the VES-13 screening tool to identify increased risk of functional decline at one year after initial VES-13 screening in these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients complete the Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES-13) and a Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment at baseline and 12 months later. Variables collected include sociodemographics; cognitive, nutritional, psychosocial, and emotional status; tumor characteristics; therapy; and mortality.

Patients are followed for 1 year for chemotherapy adherence and survival.