Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemoperfusion (HIPEC) in Gastric Cancer
This study investigates the effect of a combined therapy with gastrectomy and HIPEC in localized advanced gastric cancer.
Gastric Neoplasms
DRUG: intraoperative hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC)
Incidence of peritoneal metastases and proportion of patients free from peritoneal metastasis after one year after HIPEC., The primary objective of the study is to estimate the effect of a combined therapy with gastrectomy and HIPEC in localized advanced gastric cancer. The primary target is the incidence of peritoneal metastases in CT and the proportion of patients who after one year are free from peritoneal metastasis. The study is intended to provide planning data for a subsequent Phase III study in the form of an RCT., one year
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) measured in years., one year|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) based on imaging (CT)., one year|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by grading according to CTCAE v5.0 and Clavien-Dindo., Expected adverse events (AEs) of particular interest must be recorded from grade ≥ III according to CTCAE v5.0 or postoperative complications according to Clavien-Dindo classification from grade ≥ 3b by AE/ADR reporting.

Unexpected and expected AEs must be documented and reported as SAE from grade IV according to CTCAE v5.0 or from grade 4-5 according to Clavien-Dindo classification., one year
An operation and the constant further development of the surgical techniques can not always prevent the recurrence of a tumor of the stomach or the transition from the esophagus to the stomach. As reason for this recurrence, the investigators assume that the tumor was already present at the time of the surgery and has crossed the boundaries of the stomach or free tumor cells are located in the peritoneal cavity, even if they can't be found with the bare eye or imaging methods. Such free tumor cells have the possibility of developing metastases within the abdominal cavity.

An innovative local treatment method is being tested in Tübingen and applied to remove any remaining free tumor cells or very small and invisible residual tumors. These free tumor cells can be determined prior to the start of treatment by peritoneal endoscopy (diagnostic laparoscopy). If these can be identified by lavage of the abdominal cavity there is an increased risk for the development of peritoneal metastases. Therefore, in patients with detected free tumor cells in the lavage water of the abdominal cavity, after the removal of the stomach, should be used once a chemotherapy in the abdominal cavity, which is warmer than the body (intraoperative hyperthermic chemotherapy, HIPEC). In this study the investigators want to demonstrate, that the single administration of intraoperative HIPEC with cisplatin and doxorubicin in addition to routine surgery delays the onset of peritoneal metastases and the additional therapy with its low risks is reasonable.