TOPAZ: Tucatinib in COmbination With Pembrolizumab And TrastuZumab in Patients With HER2-Positive Breast Cancer Brain Metastases
This is a single arm, open label trial to assess the safety and efficacy of tucatinib in combination with pembrolizumab and trastuzumab for the treatment of HER2+ breast cancer brain metastases (BCBM). A total of 33 patients with untreated or previously treated and progressing HER2+ BCBM not requiring urgent central nervous system (CNS)-directed therapy will be enrolled. The study will determine the recommended dose of tucatinib in this combination and assess the efficacy of this combination in controlling CNS disease in patients with HER2+ BCBM.
Breast Cancer|Brain Metastases|HER2-positive Breast Cancer|CNS Disease
DRUG: Tucatinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab
24-week CNS disease control rate (DCR), Percentage of patients who experience objective tumor response \[ partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) \] or stable disease as assessed by investigator per RANO-BM reads on protocol-specified MRIs of the brain., 24 weeks|Recommended dose of tucatinib in combination with pembrolizumab and trastuzumab, 24 weeks
CNS objective response rate (ORR), Proportion of participants with confirmed CR or PR per RANO-BM Criteria, From baseline until the date of first documented progression or study discontinuation. Assessed up to 2 years.|Systemic ORR, Proportion of participants with confirmed CR or PR per RECIST v.1.1, From baseline until the date of first documented progression or study discontinuation. Assessed up to 2 years.|Progression-free survival (PFS), From date of registration to date of first documentation of true progression or symptomatic deterioration (as defined above), or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive and progression free are censored at date of last assessment. PFS will be assessed in the CNS and systemically., From baseline to first documentation of true progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. Assessed up to 2 years.|Overall Survival (OS), From date of registration to date of death due to any cause. Patient's last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., From baseline until death or 3 years, whichever occurs first.|Toxicity profile of tucatinib, pembrolizumab, and trastuzumab co-administration, Number of adverse events as assessed per CTCAE v.5., From first dose of study treatment until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment.
This is a single arm, open label trial to assess the safety and efficacy of tucatinib in combination with pembrolizumab and trastuzumab for the treatment of HER2+ breast cancer brain metastases (BCBM). A total of 33 patients with untreated or previously treated and progressing HER2+ BCBM not requiring urgent central nervous system (CNS)-directed therapy will be enrolled. The study will determine the recommended dose of tucatinib in this combination and assess the efficacy of this combination in controlling CNS disease in patients with HER2+ BCBM.