First-Line Treatment of A Comparison of 2 Treatments in Elderly Patients With Advanced NSCLC
This trial will look at 2 different drug combinations that have well known safety profiles and are known to be active against non small cell lung cancer and combine them with bevacizumab, an experimental drug that has shown effectiveness when added to other drug combinations for advanced non-small cell lung cancer. The primary objective in this study is to see how well this combination of drugs keeps the cancer from getting worse in this elderly population of non-small cell lung cancer patients.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin
Time to Progression (TTP), the Length of Time, in Months, That Patients Were Alive From Their First Date of Protocol Treatment Until Worsening of Their Disease, Time to Progression (TTP) is defined as the interval between the date of treatment initiation and the date of progressive disease. Progression is defined using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.0). Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., From the date of treatment initiation until the date of first documented PD or date of last study contact or date of other therapy begins up to 18 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR), the Percentage of Patients Who Experience an Objective Benefit From Treatment, Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of patients who have a partial or complete response to therapy. Responses were assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST; version 1.0). Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions, and disappearance of all non-target lesions. Partial Response: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum of longest diameters), From date of treatment initiation to end of study treatment up to 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), the Length of Time, in Months, That Patients Were Alive From Their First Date of Protocol Treatment Until Death, OS is defined as the time from the date of study entry until the date of death due to any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death or lack of data beyond follow-up period, the survival time was censored to the last date the participant was known to be alive., From date of study entry until the date of death from any cause or the date the patient was last known alive, up to 18 months
Patients in this study will be assigned to one of 2 treatment groups. The selection of the treatment groups will be done randomly by a computer.

The first group, Cohort A, will receive bevacizumab 10mg/kg by vein over 30-90 minutes followed by pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 by vein over 10 minutes followed by gemcitabine 1500 mg/m2 by vein over 30-60 minutes. This regimen will be given on day 1 and day 15 of each treatment cycle. Each cycle is 28 days long. As long as their disease does not worsen patients can receive up to a maximum of 6 cycles of this combination chemotherapy. Following that they can receive bevacizumab alone once every 2 weeks as long as their disease does not worsen.

The second group, Cohort B, will receive bevacizumab 15mg/kg by vein over 30-90 minutes followed by pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 by vein over approximately 10 minutes followed by carboplatin AUC=5 by vein over 30-60 minutes. This regimen will be given on day 1 of each treatment cycle. Each cycle is 21 days long. As long as their disease does not worsen patients can receive up to a maximum of 6 cycles of this combination chemotherapy. Following that they can receive bevacizumab alone once every 3 weeks as long as their disease does not worsen.

In both regimens vitamin B12 injections and Folic Acid pills will be given to reduce the occurrence of side effects from the treatment.

Each patient's disease will be evaluated at intervals by the proper scans or X-rays to see how well the cancer is responding to the treatment.