A Study of RNA Tumor Vaccine in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a single-arm, open-label, clinical pharmacology study to evaluate the safety of RNA tumor vaccine injection alone/in combination with PD-1 inhibitor in the treatment of advanced solid tumors with KRAS mutation.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability, antitumor activity, The immunoreactivity, pharmacokinetics and of RNA tumor vaccine.
Advanced Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: RNA tumor vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: RNA tumor vaccine+Navuliumab
Incidence of adverse events, Graded according to the NCI CTCAE version 5.0., Up to 6 months
To evaluate the antitumor activity, To assess per RECIST and iRECIST, Up to 2 years|The changes of the immunoreactivity during treatment., Peripheral blood T lymphocyte subtype, Up to 28 Days
This is an investigator initiated , sinle-arm, open-label clinical pharmacology to evaluate the safety and efficacy of RNA vaccine injection alone/in combination with PD-1 inhibitor in patients with advanced solid tumors with KRAS mutation (G12C, G12D, or G12V) and HLA type HLA-A11:01 or HLA C08:02. 10 subjects were enrolled. Monotherapy and combination therapy are included. Some eligible subjects will receive single drug therapy with RNA tumor vaccine injection, and some will receive combined treatment with PD-1. Among them:

Arm A:RNA tumor vaccine The single-agent study evaluated the safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetic characteristics of a fixed-dose (600ng) KRAS-targeted RNA vaccine injection as a single agent in humans. Eligible subjects will receive a single dose of RNA vaccine injection on day 1, day 4, day 7, and day 14, each dose of 600ng.

Arm B: RNA tumor vaccine+Navuliumab Subjects will receive maintenance therapy with a PD-1 inhibitor in addition to monotherapy with the RNA tumor vaccine injection. Subjects received a single dose of RNA vaccine injection on day 1, day 4, day 7, and day 14, with each dose of 600 ng. Inhibitors, accept the Navuliumab on day 14, the recommended dose is 3 mg/kg, intravenous injection every 2 weeks.