Fludeoxyglucose F18 Positron Emission Tomography Imaging In Assessing Patients Before and After Treatment for Locally Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Imaging procedures, such as fludeoxyglucose F18 positron emission tomography (\^18FDG-PET), may improve the ability to detect disease progression and help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment and plan more effective treatment.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well \^18FDG-PET imaging works in detecting disease progression and determining response to treatment in patients who are undergoing chemoradiotherapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: vinblastine sulfate|DRUG: vinorelbine tartrate|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography|RADIATION: fludeoxyglucose F 18|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Relationship of survival to post-treatment peak standardized uptake value (SUV) as determined by the imaging institution
Relationship of survival to post-treatment max SUV as determined by the imaging institute|Relationship of local control to post-treatment peak and max SUV as determined by the imaging institution|Relationship of survival and of local control to pre-treatment peak and max SUV as determined by the imaging institution|Reliability between peak and max SUV measurements both pre- and post-treatment|Proportion of participants who are either upstaged or downstaged by positron emission tomography scan|Reliability between PET scan-defined response to therapy measurements|Correlation of Ki-67 expression with peak and max pre-treatment SUV|Association between Ki-67 expression and overall survival at 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine whether peak standardized uptake value (SUV) for fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) shortly after definitive chemoradiotherapy is predictive of long-term survival of patients with inoperable stage IIB or III non-small cell lung cancer.

Secondary

* Determine whether max SUV for FDG-PET shortly after definitive chemoradiotherapy is predictive of long-term survival in these patients.
* Determine whether post-treatment imaging using peak and max SUV for FDG-PET shortly after definitive chemoradiotherapy is predictive of local disease control in these patients.
* Determine whether pre-treatment imaging using these techniques is predictive of long-term survival and local disease control in these patients.
* Correlate, if possible, Ki-67 expression with overall survival of patients assessed with these imaging techniques.

OUTLINE: This is a diagnostic, multicenter study.

Before starting chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo baseline whole-body positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. Patients receive fludeoxyglucose F 18 (\^18FDG) IV followed 50-70 minutes later by PET imaging. Patients then receive concurrent definitive radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Patients enrolled in other treatment-oriented clinical trials receive therapy as per that trial. Other patients receive standard thoracic radiotherapy (dose ≥ 60 Gy) and standard chemotherapy comprising a platin (cisplatin or carboplatin) and a second non-platin, non-gemcitabine drug (etoposide, vinblastine, vinorelbine, paclitaxel, or docetaxel). Approximately 14 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy and adjuvant chemotherapy (if given), patients undergo post-treatment \^18FDG-PET imaging.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for at least 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 250 patients (including at least 75 with stage IIB/IIIA disease and at least 75 with stage IIIB disease) will be accrued for this study within 2 years.