Standard of Care Versus Hemopatch® During Liver Resection
This multicentre prospective and randomized study aims to compare the sealant effect after surgical liver resection of a new collagen - polyethylene glycol hemostatic / sealant patch (Hemopatch) vs standard of care.
Liver Cancer|Hemorrhage Liver|Bile Leak|Surgery|Tumor Liver
OTHER: Hemopatch|OTHER: Standard of care
Control of bile leakage, analysis of bilirubin (mg/dL),in the drain fluid, From day 1 to day 4
Bleeding, Total volume of blood, quantified though aspiration and drainage (Quantification of total number of deciliters (dL) of blood gathered), From the surgery day until day 30|Analysis of hemoglobin, Quantification of hemoglobin (mg/dL), in the drain fluid, From the surgery day until day 30|Bleeding complications, Presence (YES or NO compatible imagen of hemorrhage )of post-hepatectomy hemorrhage or Hematoma formation (Valid imaging tests of presence or absence can be checked by : abdomen ecography, TAC or RNM), From the surgery day until day 30|Transfusion requirements, Quantification of number of packed red blood cells, From the surgery day until day 30
Bile leakage severity, Classification A,B,C. According to International Study Group of Liver Surgery (ISGLS), From the surgery day until day 30|Morbidity, * Postoperative Ileus (refers to obstipation and intolerance of oral intake due to non mechanical factors that disrupt the normal coordinated propulsive motor activity of the gastrointestinal tract following abdominal or non abdominal surgery)
* Allergic reaction (Signs and symptoms are urticarial rash; pruritus; flushing; angioedema of the face, extremities, or laryngeal tissues (leading to throat tightness with stridor, or rarely asphyxiation); wheezing; gastrointestinal symptoms; and/or hypotension after use Hemopatch)
* Intrabdominal Infection (It describes a diverse set of diseases. It is broadly defined as peritoneal inflammation in response to microorganisms, resulting in purulence in the peritoneal cavity.), From the surgery day until day 30|Mortality, Death: number of patients dying during study, From the surgery day until day 30
Liver resection is the only potentially curative treatment in malignant or benign hepatobiliary lesions. Biliary leakage is a postoperative complication (5-10%) which may have considerable consequences. Surgical techniques and devices to facilitate the control of bile leakage have been developed in the last decades and have minimized operative risks of liver resection. Nevertheless, hepatic parenchymal transection can be associated with bile leakage due to the division of small ducts. In order to achieve control over parenchyma from the section surface and to prevent intraperitoneal complications attributed to bile leakage/bleeding various locally applicable agents are in use. This control of bile leakage include fibrin sealant and synthetic glues. Evidence from randomized controlled trials regarding the use of fibrin sealants on their own or combined with a collagenfleece has shown Little efficacy.

A new collagen and polyethylene glycol hemostatic/sealant patch (Hemopatch) \[Baxter, Vienna, Austria\] is indicated for local hemostasis of capillary bleeding and bleeding of parenchymal organs. The felt structure being rich in surface gives a framework for the adhesion of blood platelets, thus providing an additional impetus as a sealant agent.

The investigators aim to demonstrate the sealing capability of hemopatch and to prove its non-inferiority to the standard of care (may include other sealant / hemostatic devices as patches or liquid/gels). There will be 2 groups to compare. The study group where Hemopatch is applied at the end of surgery. And the control group, where standard of care measures will be applied at the end of surgery. The end-point is the assessment of control of bile leakage at 1, 2, 3, and 4 day, during the hospital stay and or at 30 days for both treatment group. The secondary end-points are bleeding complications (re-bleeding, hematoma formation), volume of fluid drained on day 1 to day 4 after surgery, hemoglobin variation from pre-operative until discharge and post-operatory complications until 30th day pos-op.