Study Comparing Investigational Drug HBI-8000 + Nivolumab vs. Placebo + Nivolumab in Patients With Advanced Melanoma
This is a clinical study to compare the efficacy and safety of HBI-8000 combined with nivolumab to Placebo combined with nivolumab in patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. A separate open-label cohort of adults with new, progressive brain metastasis or adolescents with or without new progressive brain metastasis receive HBI-8000 combined with nivolumab.
Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma|Progressive Brain Metastasis
DRUG: HBI-8000 in combination with nivolumab|DRUG: Placebo in combination with nivolumab
Primary Outcome, Progression-free Survival (PFS) defined as the time (in days) from the date of randomization to the first date of documented disease progression as determined by BIRC, or the date of death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., From date of randomization to the earliest date of documented progressive disease (PD), assessed up to 48 months
Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (ORR) defined as the percentage of patients enrolled in each study arm with a best response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1), as determined by the blinded independent review committee (BIRC)., From date of randomization until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, assessed up to 48 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) defined as the time from randomization date to the date of death due to any cause., From date of randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 48 months|Safety, defined as the incidence rate of AEs, Safety, defined as the incidence rate of AEs. The NCI-CTCAE v5.0 will serve as the reference document for choosing the appropriate terminology to grade the severity of AEs, and to assess the causal relationship and outcomes., From date of screening until the end of study, assessed up to 48 months
Duration of Response, Duration of Response (DoR), defined as the time from the first date of objective response (PR or CR) according to RECIST 1.1 as determined by the BIRC to the first date of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause., Assessed up to 48 months|Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate (DCR), defined as the percentage of total patients enrolled in each study arm with a best response of CR, PR or SD according to RECIST 1.1, as determined by the BIRC., Assessed up to 48 months|Time to Response, Time to Response (TTR), defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first date of documented objective response (CR or PR) as determined by the BIRC., Assessed up to 48 months|Time to Progression, Time to Progression (TTP) defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first date of documented progression as determined by the BIRC. For patients with no PD, TTP will be considered censored at death or at the last evaluable imaging date., Assessed up to 48 months
This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study of HBI-8000 or Placebo combined with nivolumab. Randomization of eligible patients will be stratified by PD-L1 expression (positive, ≥1% expression level versus negative, \<1% expression level) and LDH (normal versus elevated) in the main study. Adults with new, progressive brain metastasis, or adolescents with or without new progressive brain metastasis will be enrolled in a separate, non-randomized, open-label cohort to receive the combination of HBI-8000 and nivolumab.

In the main study, eligible patients will be randomized within the appropriate stratum at a 1:1 ratio to the Test arm or the Control arm. Study treatment will be initiated within 3 days of randomization.

A treatment cycle consists of 28 days. Patients will be treated with one of the following:

Test arm: HBI-8000 30 mg oral BIW + nivolumab IV at specific doses on specific days

Control arm: Placebo oral BIW + nivolumab IV at specific doses on specific days

The Study Treatment (HBI-8000 or Placebo) is administered approximately 30 minutes after a full meal.

The Study Treatment (HBI-8000 or Placebo) will be administered twice a week on the following days of every 28-day cycle:

* CxW1: Days 1, 4
* CxW2: Days 8, 11
* CxW3: Days 15, 18
* CxW4: Days 22, 25

Study treatment must commence within 3 days after randomization and continue up to 2 years or until disease progression (confirmed), unacceptable toxicity or patient withdrawal of consent.

In addition to Study Treatment, nivolumab is administered at specific doses on specific days as an intravenous infusion over approximately 30 minutes. Nivolumab will be administered on Day 1 of each cycle.

For non-randomized cohort for special population, eligible subjects will receive HBI-8000 30 mg oral BIW and nivolumab IV at specific doses on specific days, under the same schedule as described above. For adolescents weighing \< 40 kg, nivolumab will be dosed at specific doses every 4 weeks. Nivolumab will be administered on Day 1 of each cycle.