Testing the Combination of Two Immunotherapy Drugs (Magrolimab and Dinutuximab) in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma or Relapsed Osteosarcoma
This phase I trial is to find out the best dose, possible benefits and/or side effects of magrolimab in combination with dinutuximab in treating patients with neuroblastoma that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory) or relapsed osteosarcoma. Magrolimab and dinutuximab are monoclonal antibodies that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. The combination of magrolimab and dinutuximab may shrink or stabilize relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma or relapsed osteosarcoma. In addition, this trial may help researchers find out if it is safe to give magrolimab and dinutuximab after surgery to remove tumors from the lungs.
High Risk Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Refractory Neuroblastoma|Resectable Osteosarcoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Dinutuximab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Magrolimab|PROCEDURE: Resection
Incidence of adverse events (dose finding cohort), Percentage of evaluable patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs) evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 stratified by dose level., Up to 30 days after last dose|Cycle 1 Dose Limiting Toxicities of magrolimab, Percent of DLT-evaluable subjects experiencing dose limiting toxicities during cycle 1 stratified by dose level., During cycle 1 (21 days)|Incidence of adverse events (expansion cohort), Percentage of evaluable patients experiencing grade 3 or higher AEs will be evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Within 3 weeks of surgery
Area under the concentration versus time curve of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab), Median (min, max) concentration versus time curve of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) assessed at day 1, 8, and 15 of the safety lead in, day 1, 8, and 15 of cycle 1, day 1 of cycles 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11, and end of therapy., Up to 9 months|Clearance of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab), Median (min, max) clearance of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) assessed at day 1, 8, and 15 of the safety lead in, day 1, 8, and 15 of cycle 1, day 1 of cycles 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11, and end of therapy., Up to 9 months|Half-life of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab), Median (min, max) half-life of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) assessed at day 1, 8, and 15 of the safety lead in, day 1, 8, and 15 of cycle 1, day 1 of cycles 2, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11, and end of therapy., Up to 9 months|Anti-tumor activity of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab), Percent of response-evaluable patients with best response of partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) stratified by dose level., Up to 5 years post treatment|Event free survival (expansion cohort), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate 1-year event free survival (EFS) with 95% confidence interval as the time from study entry until relapse, secondary malignancy, or death., Up to 1 year|Overall response rate (expansion cohort), Percent of response-evaluable subjects with neuroblastoma with best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1., Up to 5 years post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) in combination with dinutuximab in children and young adults with relapsed/refractory (R/R) neuroblastoma (NBL) or relapsed osteosarcoma.

II. Determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) given in combination with dinutuximab in children and young adults.

III. Determine the safety and feasibility of administering Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) in combination with dinutuximab to patients that undergo pulmonary resection of metastatic osteosarcoma within three weeks of surgery.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of Hu5F9-G4 (magrolimab) in children and young adults.

II. Evaluate the event free survival (EFS) in two cohorts of patients who are treated at the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) (measurable relapsed osteosarcoma and patients with pulmonary relapse undergoing resection) and compare to historical controls.

III. Observe and record anti-tumor activity. IV. Evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) of patients in the NBL cohorts (measurable R/R NBL and evaluable R/R NBL) and osteosarcoma patients (measurable relapsed osteosarcoma) in the expansion cohorts treated at the RP2D.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore biomarkers of response and resistance including genomic (CD47 expression, Fc receptor \[FcR\] polymorphisms, SIRPa polymorphisms, and KiR phenotype) and immunologic (dinutuximab human anti-chimeric antibody \[HACA\], magrolimab anti-drug antibody \[ADA\], peripheral and bone marrow immune subsets, and circulating cytokines).

II. To explore biomarkers of response in the tumor microenvironment through multiplexed ion beam imaging (MIBI) on resected tissue or archival tissues including comparison of pre- and post- treatment tumor tissues from patients undergoing staged resection of pulmonary osteosarcoma.

OUTLINE: This is a dose de-escalation study of magrolimab with fixed-dose dinutuximab followed by a dose-expansion study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive magrolimab intravenously (IV) and dinutuximab IV on study. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and blood sample collection on study, as well as bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the trial.

ARM B: Patients receive magrolimab IV and dinutuximab IV on study. Patients with pulmonary osteosarcoma may undergo surgical resection of tumor after cycle 1. After surgery, these patients continue receiving magrolimab and dinutuximab on study. Patients also undergo CT, MRI, and collection of blood samples on study, as well as bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at months 2, 4, 6, 9 and 12 and then yearly until year 5, or until disease progression.