Binimetinib and Encorafenib for the Treatment of Metastatic Melanoma and Central Nervous System Metastases
This phase II trial studies the effects of binimetinib and encorafenib in treating patients with melanoma that has spread to the central nervous system (metastases). Binimetinib and encorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving binimetinib and encorafenib may help control melanoma that has spread to the brain.
Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Melanoma|Pathologic Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8
DRUG: Binimetinib|DRUG: Encorafenib|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression free survival (PFS) (Cohort A), At 3 months|Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), Up to 28 days|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Graded according to the NCI CTCAE version 4.03 and changes in clinical laboratory parameters, vital signs, ECGs, ECHO/MUGA scans and ophthalmic examinations., Up to 30 days after last dose|Incidence of dose interruptions, dose modifications and discontinuations due to AEs, Up to 3 years
Progression free survival, From the date of first dose of study drug to the time of the first documented progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years|Extracranial response rate, Extracranial response rate is defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall extracranial response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 per investigator assessment., Up to 3 years|Intracranial response rate, Intracranial response rate is defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall Intracranial response of CR or PR according to modified (m)RECIST v1.1 per Investigator assessment. In addition, as part of our secondary endpoint, we will use Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases (RANO-BM) criteria for response assessment., Up to 3 years|Disease control rate, Defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of CR, PR or stable disease (SD) per Investigator assessment., Up to 3 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. DOR estimates along with two-sided 95% confidence interval is will be presented., From first documented response of CR or PR per Investigator assessment until first documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), The survival distribution function for OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. OS estimates along with two-sided 95% Cis will be presented. Associations between OS and demographic/clinical measures may be evaluated using Cox proportional hazards regression models., From the date of first dose of study drug to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate antitumor activity of high dosing regimen of encorafenib + binimetinib combination therapy for patients with BRAFV600-mutant melanoma brain metastases and/or leptomeningeal disease (LMD) as measured by progression free survival (PFS).

II. To evaluate the safety/tolerability of high dosing regimen of encorafenib + binimetinib combination therapy for patients with BRAFV600-mutant melanoma brain metastases and/or LMD.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To further evaluate antitumor activity of high dosing regimen of encorafenib + binimetinib combination therapy for patients with BRAFV600-mutant melanoma and/or LMD, as measured by brain metastasis response rate (BMRR), extracranial response rate, global response rate, brain metastases disease control rate (DCR), overall survival (OS), and duration of response (DOR).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the immunological effects of this treatment on immune cells in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to those observed in the peripheral blood.

II. To compare levels of encorafenib and binimetinib in the CSF and peripheral blood.

III. To assess neurocognitive function as measured by the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) and MD Anderson Symptom Inventory brain tumor module (MDASI-BT).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive encorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and binimetinib PO twice daily (BID) on day 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks thereafter.