Iscador® P (Mistletoe) Immunotherapy for Recurrent Osteogenic Sarcoma
This will be a phase II, single arm study of osteosarcoma patients with fully resected pulmonary metastases. The MTD corresponds to the dosage recommendations of the manufacturer of Iscador® P which is licensed in Sweden, New Zealand, South Korea, Germany and Switzerland for the treatment of solid tumors and precancerous lesions.

The study population includes patients with relapse of osteosarcoma in the lung following surgical resection of all gross disease (2nd or greater CR). Following completion of final thoracotomy, they will be treated with Iscador® P at concentrations up to the MTD with surveillance imaging via CT scan to monitor for relapsed disease.
Osteogenic Sarcoma Recurrent
DRUG: Iscador*P
Event Free Survival, To estimate the event free survival for pediatric, adolescent and young adult patients with relapsed pulmonary osteosarcoma who are receiving treatment with subcutaneous Iscador® P following complete resection of all metastases., 12-months post complete resection of all metastases
Quality of life post resection, Quality of life assessed with the NIH PROMIS® measures based on the patien's age. The PROMIS® Pediatric Profile v2.0 - Profile-25 and Parent-Proxy will be used for children from age 8 up to 18 years of age. It includes 25 questions with a graded categorical 5-point response scale.

The PROMIS-29 Plus 2 Profile v2.1 for adults is a patient-reported measure of quality of life for adults. It includes 31 questions with a graded categorical 5-point response scale.

Both PROMIS scales have a mean score of 50 and a standard deviation (SD) of 10 in the general population., 12-months post complete resection of all metastases|Time to relapse, Time to relapse in pediatric, adolescent, and young adult patients with relapsed pulmonary osteosarcoma who are receiving treatment with subcutaneous Iscador® P following complete resection of all metastases., 12-months post complete resection of all metastases
This will be a phase II, single arm study of osteosarcoma patients with fully resected pulmonary metastases. The MTD corresponds to the dosage recommendations of the manufacturer of Iscador® P which is licensed in Sweden, New Zealand, South Korea, Germany and Switzerland for the treatment of solid tumors and precancerous lesions.

Iscador® P is to be injected subcutaneously (abdominal) 3 times/week. All patients will start with Series 0 (0.01mg, 0.01mg, 0.1mg, 0.1mg, 1mg, 1mg, 1mg). If tolerated, they will receive this series for 2 consecutive boxes (2 x 7 vials per box). This will then be followed by Series 1 (0.1mg, 0.1mg, 1mg, 1mg, 10mg, 10mg, 10mg), which will be administered for the following 2 consecutive boxes (2 x 7 vials per box). If tolerated, patients will proceed to Series 2 (1mg, 1mg, 10mg, 10mg, 20mg, 20mg 20mg), which will be continued through week 52 (13 cycles).

The study population includes patients with relapse of osteosarcoma in the lung following surgical resection of all gross disease (2nd or greater CR). Following completion of final thoracotomy, they will be treated with Iscador® P at concentrations up to the MTD with surveillance imaging via CT scan to monitor for relapsed disease.