Artificial Intelligence Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy for Real-time Assessment of Gastric Cancer Risk.
Current national guidelines recommend the use of OLGIM score to evaluate the risk of gastric cancer in patients, and close gastroscopic monitoring should be performed after OLGIM grade III/IV. However, it would not be clinically feasible to require at least four biopsies. Confocal laser endomicroscopy is able to magnify the tissue by 1000X, which can be seen at the cellular level. Observing goblet cells under Confocal laser endomicroscopy is simpler and diagnostic accuracy is comparable to pathology. Confocal laser endomicroscopy enables better assessment of intestinal metaplasia in gastric mucosa, thus quantifying the risk of gastric cancer and avoiding multiple biopsies.
Intestinal Metaplasia of Gastric Mucosa|Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy
Endoscopists concluded the sensitivity of CGGIM score in the diagnosis of OLGIM III/IV, The confocal grading of gastric intestinal metaplasia (CGGIM) may be used to assess a patient's risk by the endoscopic assessment of IM in the antrum, incisura, and corpus with the use of confocal laser endomicroscopy. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 10. The higher the score, the more severe the degree of intestinal metaplasia, and the higher the risk of gastric cancer in patients. CGGIM scores were calculated to be compared with OLGIM based on the results of the endoscopist 's procedure., 2 years|Endoscopists derive the specificity of CGGIM score in the diagnosis of OLGIM III/IV, The confocal grading of gastric intestinal metaplasia (CGGIM) may be used to assess a patient's risk by the endoscopic assessment of IM in the antrum, incisura, and corpus with the use of confocal laser endomicroscopy. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 10. The higher the score, the more severe the degree of intestinal metaplasia, and the higher the risk of gastric cancer in patients. CGGIM scores were calculated to be compared with OLGIM based on the results of the endoscopist 's procedure., 2 years|Accuracy of CGGIM Score for Diagnosing OLGIM III/IV by Endoscopists, The confocal grading of gastric intestinal metaplasia (CGGIM) may be used to assess a patient's risk by the endoscopic assessment of IM in the antrum, incisura, and corpus with the use of confocal laser endomicroscopy. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 10. The higher the score, the more severe the degree of intestinal metaplasia, and the higher the risk of gastric cancer in patients. CGGIM scores were calculated to be compared with OLGIM based on the results of the endoscopist 's procedure., 2 years|AI yielded the sensitivity of CGGIM score in the diagnosis of OLGIM III/IV, The confocal grading of gastric intestinal metaplasia (CGGIM) may be used to assess a patient's risk by the endoscopic assessment of IM in the antrum, incisura, and corpus with the use of confocal laser endomicroscopy. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 10. The higher the score, the more severe the degree of intestinal metaplasia, and the higher the risk of gastric cancer in patients. CGGIM scores were calculated based on existing AI model identification results and compared with OLGIM., 2 years|AI yielded the specificity of CGGIM score in the diagnosis of OLGIM III/IV, The confocal grading of gastric intestinal metaplasia (CGGIM) may be used to assess a patient's risk by the endoscopic assessment of IM in the antrum, incisura, and corpus with the use of confocal laser endomicroscopy. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 10. The higher the score, the more severe the degree of intestinal metaplasia, and the higher the risk of gastric cancer in patients. CGGIM scores were calculated based on existing AI model identification results and compared with OLGIM., 2 years|AI yields accuracy of CGGIM score for diagnosis of OLGIM III/IV, The confocal grading of gastric intestinal metaplasia (CGGIM) may be used to assess a patient's risk by the endoscopic assessment of IM in the antrum, incisura, and corpus with the use of confocal laser endomicroscopy. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 10. The higher the score, the more severe the degree of intestinal metaplasia, and the higher the risk of gastric cancer in patients. CGGIM scores were calculated based on existing AI model identification results and compared with OLGIM., 2 years
Comparison of accuracy of CGGIM score between AI and endoscopists in diagnosing OLGIM III/IV, Chi-square test was used to compare the accuracy of endoscopists and AI in the diagnosis of OLGIM, 2 years
Globally, gastric cancer is the fifth most prevalent malignancy and the third leading cause of cancer mortality. Current national guidelines recommend the use of OLGIM score to evaluate the risk of gastric cancer in patients, and close gastroscopic monitoring should be performed after OLGIM grade III/IV. However, it would not be clinically feasible to require at least four biopsies. Confocal laser endomicroscopy is able to magnify the tissue by 1000X, which can be seen at the cellular level. Observing goblet cells under Confocal laser endomicroscopy is simpler and diagnostic accuracy is comparable to pathology. Confocal laser endomicroscopy enables better assessment of intestinal metaplasia in gastric mucosa, thus quantifying the risk of gastric cancer and avoiding multiple biopsies. The investigators aim to design the CGGIM scores to evaluate gastric cancer risk.