Surgery Followed by Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme
RATIONALE: Internal radiation uses radioactive material placed directly into or near a tumor to kill tumor cells. External-beam radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Combining internal radiation with external-beam radiation therapy may kill any remaining tumor cells following surgery.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining internal radiation therapy with external-beam radiation therapy in treating patients who have undergone surgery for glioblastoma multiforme.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
PROCEDURE: conventional surgery|RADIATION: brachytherapy|RADIATION: radiation therapy
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of brachytherapy administered via GliaSite RTS™ applicator followed by external beam radiotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme.
* Determine the acute and chronic toxicity of brachytherapy administered via GliaSite RTS™ in these patients.
* Determine the survival rate of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of brachytherapy.

Patients undergo craniotomy for histologic confirmation of glioblastoma multiforme, surgical resection, and placement of a GliaSite RTS™ applicator that includes Iotrex™.

Beginning 3-21 days after surgery, patients undergo brachytherapy via the GliaSite RTS™ applicator. Within 30 days of brachytherapy (no more than 60 days after resection) patients undergo external beam radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 5-10 patients receive escalating doses of brachytherapy until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 5 or 3 of 10 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Patients are followed at 21-35 days, every 2 months for 1 year, and then for survival.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-100 patients will be accrued for this study.