Palbociclib in Combination With Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone for Multiple Myeloma
Our hypothesis is that treating relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma with PD 0332991 (Palbociclib) in combination with lenalidomide will result will be both effectively inducing myeloma plasma cell death as well maintaining a favorable side effect profile.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Establish a maximum-tolerated dose of Palbociclib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone for patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, The primary endpoint of objective determination of the maximum tolerated dose will be assessed through safety reports. The frequency of subjects experiencing toxicities will be tabulated. Toxicities will be assessed and graded according to CTCAE v. 4.0 terminology, 3 years
Number of subjects who demonstrate a response to Palbociclib, Lenalidomide, and dexamethasone, Capture the number of subjects who demonstrate an improvement (response) in myeloma when being treated with palbociclib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone., 3 years|Survival duration without disease progression of relapsed/refractory study subjects treated with palbociclib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone, Measure the progression-free survival of subjects following treatment with a combination of palbociclib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone in relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma., 5 years|Toxicity profile associated with the study regimen (palbociclib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone), Determine the regimen-associated adverse events of the Palbociclib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone treatment, 3 years
This clinical trial is for men and women with multiple myeloma that has returned after treatment (relapsed) or did not respond to prior treatment (refractory).

This is a phase 1 study of the addition of the PD 0332991 (Palbociclib) CDK4/CDK6 inhibitor to lenalidomide / dexamethasone treatment in RRMM. The purpose of the study is to determine the effectiveness of the combination of PD 0332991, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (PLD) in treating relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. PD 0332991 (Palbociclib) is an experimental drug and is a pill taken by mouth. It works by blocking specific growth signals within cancer cells. Lenalidomide (also called Revlimid) is approved for use with dexamethasone for people with multiple myeloma who have received prior therapy. Study participants will receive different doses of Palbociclib and lenalidomide depending on when they enroll in the study. The study will help determine the maximum tolerated dose of the combination of the study drugs. Treatment schedule (treatment cycles are 28 days):

* Palbociclib daily for Days 1-14 of each cycle
* Lenalidomide daily for Days 8-21 (or Days 1-21, depending on dose level) of each cycle
* Dexamethasone on Days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each cycle. Participants will continue on study treatment as long as they are responding to therapy and not experiencing unacceptable side effects.