SBRT and Oncolytic Virus Therapy Before Pembrolizumab for Metastatic TNBC and NSCLC
This is a Phase II trial to determine the efficacy and safety of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) and in situ oncolytic virus therapy used as a window of opportunity treatment before pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In situ oncolytic virus therapy will consist of adenovirus-mediated expression of herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (ADV/HSV-tk) plus valacyclovir therapy.
Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Metastatic Triple-negative Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: ADV/HSV-tk|DRUG: Valacyclovir|RADIATION: SBRT|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate (ORR) of ADV/HSV-tk plus (+) valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment before pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic TNBC and metastatic NSCLC. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 will be used to assess treatment response. Modified immune-related response criteria (irRC; derived from RECIST 1.1) will also be documented., 30 days after the last dose of pembrolizumab until disease progression, initiating a non-study cancer treatment, withdrawing consent, or becoming lost to follow-up. Median duration of follow-up was 8.3 months (95% CI 3.0-10.1 months).
Duration of Response, Duration of response to ADV/HSV-tk plus valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT followed by pembrolizumab, 30 days after the last dose of pembrolizumab until disease progression, initiating a non-study cancer treatment, withdrawing consent, or becoming lost to follow-up. Median duration of follow-up was 8.3 months (95% CI 3.0-10.1 months).|Overall Survival Rate, Overall survival (OS) rate in subjects receiving ADV/HSV-tk plus valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT followed by pembrolizumab. OS is the time (measured in months) from intratumoral viral injection to death or last date of contact., After confirmed disease progression or starts a new therapy, the subject moves into the Survival Follow-up to be contacted every 12 weeks to assess for survival status until death, withdrawal, or end of study. Median duration of follow-up was 8.3 months.|Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events, To document the toxicities associated with ADV/HSV-tk + valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment before pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic TNBC and metastatic NSCLC. Toxicity will be defined as the number of participants with any treatment-related death or any ≥ Grade 3 hematological toxicity excluding alopecia and constitutional symptoms, as assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.03., Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) will be captured from the time of informed consent signing up to 30 days after the final dose of pembrolizumab, (up to 24 months of treatment for patients without disease progression).|Antitumor Activity, Measure the antitumor activity as assessed by RECIST 1.1. Modified immune-related response criteria will also be documented., 30 days after the last dose of pembrolizumab|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate of ADV/HSV-tk plus valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT followed by pembrolizumab, 30 days after the last dose of pembrolizumab until disease progression, initiating a non-study cancer treatment, withdrawing consent, or becoming lost to follow-up. Median duration of follow-up was 8.3 months (95% CI 3.0-10.1 months).|Progression-free Survival in Months, To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) of ADV/HSV-tk + valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment before pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic TNBC and metastatic NSCLC as measured in months and defined the number of months a patient remains free from disease progression., 30 days after the last dose of pembrolizumab until disease progression, initiating a non-study cancer treatment, withdrawing consent, or becoming lost to follow-up.
Computed Tomography-based Response of a Non-target Lesion, Measure the computed tomography-based response (RECIST 1.1) of a non-target lesion to ADV/HSV-tk plus valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT followed by pembrolizumab, baseline and 30 days after the last dose of pembrolizumab|Change in Immunohistochemical Expression of Tumor-infiltrating Lymphocytes in Tumor Biopsy Tissues, Measure the change in immunohistochemical expression of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in tumor biopsy tissues in response to ADV/HSV-tk plus valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT followed by pembrolizumab, baseline and 30 days after the last dose of pembrolizumab
This is a Phase II trial to determine the efficacy and safety of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) and in situ oncolytic virus therapy used as a window of opportunity treatment before pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In situ oncolytic virus therapy will consist of adenovirus-mediated expression of herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (ADV/HSV-tk) plus valacyclovir. Male and female patients aged ≥ 18 years with histologically confirmed locally advanced or metastatic TNBC that has relapsed on or is refractory to 1 or more lines of standard of care therapy or histologically or cytologically confirmed metastatic NSCLC that is immunotherapy and chemotherapy naïve or previously treated with 1 cycle of platinum-containing chemotherapy are eligible to participate in the study. ADV/HSV-tk (5 x 1011 viral particles) in a 2-mL total volume will be injected intratumorally on Day 0 of the study. Valacyclovir will be orally administered at a dose of 2 g three times daily for 14 days. Valacyclovir treatment will be administered 24 hours after the gene vector injection from Day 1 to Day 15 of the study. SBRT of 30 gray (Gy; 6 Gy X 5 fractions) will be administered over 2 weeks from Day 2 to Day 16 of the study. Pembrolizumab (200 mg) will be administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 3 weeks starting on Day 17 of the study and continuing until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months in patients without disease progression. The primary endpoint will be the objective response rate of ADV/HSV-tk + valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment before pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic TNBC and metastatic NSCLC. RECIST 1.1 will be used to assess treatment response. Secondary endpoints will include a) clinical benefit rate; b) duration of response; c) overall survival and progression-free survival rates; d) toxicity (toxicity will be defined as any treatment-related death or any ≥ grade 3 toxicity excluding alopecia and constitutional symptoms as assessed by the NCI CTCAE v4.03); and e) antitumor activity of ADV/HSV-tk plus valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment before pembrolizumab.