Leflunomide for the Treatment of High-Risk Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
This pilot trial studies how well leflunomide works for the treatment of patients with high-risk smoldering plasma cell myeloma, for the delay of disease progression. Anti-inflammatory drugs, such as leflunomide lower the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. The information learned from this study will help researchers to learn more about the anti-myeloma activity of leflunomide, and whether it may delay the onset of symptomatic multiple myeloma in patients with high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma.
Smoldering Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Leflunomide|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Progressive disease, Will be defined by International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. Progression to overt multiple myeloma is always considered progressive disease., Up to 48 months
Incidence of adverse events, Will be defined using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 to grade toxicities. Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 30 days after end of treatment|Incidence of toxicities, Will be defined using the NCI CTCAE version 5 to grade toxicities. Will assess toxicities by type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration. Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 30 days after the end of treatment|Overall response rate, The overall response rate and 95% Clopper Pearson binomial confidence interval (CI) will be calculated. Response rates will also be explored based on number/type of prior therapy(ies). Response rate (CR, VGPR, PR, or MR), based on the IMWG 2016 criteria will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients that have confirmed CR/VGPR/PR or MR., From the date of first documented response (confirmed complete response [CR], very good partial response [VGPR], partial response [PR] or minor response [MR]) to documented disease relapse, progression or death, assessed up to 48 months|Overall survival, Overall survival will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From start date of therapy to date of death from any cause, assessed up to 48 months|Quality of life Questionnaire, The Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) scales (five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status / quality of life (QoL) scale, and six single items) will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Changes in reported QOL over time from baseline will also be summarized., At baseline and every 6 cycles thereafter up to 36 cycles (end of treatment), length of one complete cycle is 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the anti-myeloma activity of leflunomide, when given as a single agent, as assessed by 6-month progression-free response rate based on International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of single agent leflunomide. II. To summarize and assess toxicities by type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration.

III. To estimate overall and progression-free survival probabilities. IV. To estimate response rate and duration of response. V. To describe the impact of treatment on quality of life, as assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score version (v)3.0.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the molecular evolution of the tumor cells. II. To evaluate whether specific genetic subtypes respond differently to leflunomide.

III. To evaluate the role of immune cells in the progression of smoldering multiple myeloma (SMM).

IV. To evaluate the role of leflunomide in modulating the immune system. V. To examine the relationship between immunological changes and disease progression.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive leflunomide orally (PO) once daily (QD). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 28 days until an alternative myeloma therapy has commenced or until disease progression, and then up to 6 months.