Study of Sorafenib and Transarterial Chemoembolization (TACE) to Treat Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This study will combine two therapies to treat patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma; sorafenib, and drug eluting beads delivered intra-arterially. The purpose of the study is to establish the safety and the effectiveness of the combination therapy. The investigators hypothesize that the combination of the two therapies will not result in greater toxicities to patients than that expected for either therapy given alone.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Hepatoma
DRUG: sorafenib|PROCEDURE: LC Bead-TACE
Safety Will be Assessed by Grading Toxicities Reported at Intervals Throughout the Study. Higher Grade Toxicities Will be Assessed for Their Degree of Relatedness to the Study Treatment., Treatment toxicities assessed by CTCAE v3.0 were stratified by cycle - patients on Cycle 1, and patients on Cycles 2-5 or more. 50 patients were reviewed for toxicities for Cycle 1, and all 50 patients experienced at least one adverse event during this time period., 6 weeks (Cycle 1)|Safety Will be Assessed by Grading Toxicities Reported at Intervals Throughout the Study. Higher Grade Toxicities Will be Assessed for Their Degree of Relatedness to the Study Treatment., Treatment toxicities assessed by CTCAE v3.0 were stratified by cycle - patients on Cycle 1, and patients on Cycles 2-5 or more., 2 years (Cycles 2-5+)
Efficacy Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) to Determine Response and Disease Control Rate, Efficacy as assessed by radiographic tumor response using the RECIST criteria at baseline and at 6 months post the initiation of treatment. 33 out of the original 50 patients were evaluable at this time point, with 17 out of the 50 exiting prior to 6 months or were not assessable by RECIST criteria.

Complete response (CR): Disappearance of all lesions targeted with therapy Partial Response (PR): at least 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of targeted lesions Progressive Disease (PD): at least 20% increase in the sum of LD of targeted lesions Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or sufficient increase to qualify for PD, 6 months|Efficacy Assessed by European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL) Criteria to Determine Response and Disease Control Rate, Efficacy as assessed by radiographic tumor response using the EASL criteria at baseline and at 6 months post the initiation of treatment.

Complete response (CR): 100% tumor necrosis Partial Response (PR): more than 50% tumor necrosis Progressive Disease (PD): increase in tumor enhancement by more than 25% Stable Disease (SD): Cases that do not qualify for one of the above criteria, 6 months|Efficacy - Median TTP After Combination Treatment With Sorafenib and TACE, Time to progression (TTP) - defined as the time from initiation of therapy to disease progression (radiological). Median TTP calculated for all subjects and stratified by Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staging.

46 patients out of 50 were reviewed for this outcome. 3 patients were excluded because they underwent liver transplantation and 1 patient was excluded for hepatic resection., 3 years|Efficacy - Overall Survival (OS) After Combination Treatment With Sorafenib and TACE, Overall survival was assessed with Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival, and the Mantel-Cox log-rank test was used to determine differences in survival.

All 50 patients were included in survival analyses as all 50 received at least one dose of sorafenib., 3 years|Efficacy - Factors Associated With Overall Survival (OS) After Combination Treatment With Sorafenib and TACE, Overall survival was assessed with Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival, and the Mantel-Cox log-rank test was used to determine differences in survival., 3 years
Estimated Percentage of Participants Surviving After One Year, Percentage of study patients surviving after one year from initial treatment analyzed with Kaplan-Meier curve., 1 year|Estimated Percentage of Participants Surviving After Three Year, Percentage of study patients surviving after three years from initial treatment analyzed with Kaplan-Meier curve., 3 years|Median Overall Survival OS Stratified by BCLC Criteria, Median overall survival stratified by Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staging as assessed by Kaplan-Meier estimator. Patients are grouped to stages A (early), B (intermediate), and C (advanced) according to stage of disease., up to 4 years
This study will combine two therapies to treat patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma; sorafenib, and drug eluting beads delivered intra-arterially. The purpose of the study is to establish the safety and the effectiveness of the combination therapy. The investigators hypothesize that the combination of the two therapies will not result in greater toxicities to patients than that expected for either therapy given alone.