A Study of Vismodegib (GDC-0449, Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitor) As Maintenance Therapy in Patients With Ovarian Cancer in a Second or Third Complete Remission
The study was a Phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter clinical trial of vismodegib (GDC-0449) in patients with ovarian cancer in a second or third complete remission. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either vismodegib or placebo. Randomization was stratified based on whether their cancer was in a second or third complete remission.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Vismodegib 150 mg|DRUG: Placebo to vismodegib
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time between randomization and disease progression, as confirmed by radiography, or death for any reason. Since patients were in remission at the start of the study, they had no evidence of the presence of tumors. Disease progression was defined as radiographic evidence of a tumor. Tumor assessments by computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis were performed at screening and every 8 weeks during the study., From randomization date through the data cut-off date of May 15, 2010, up to 100 weeks
Progression-free Survival (PFS) in Patients With Versus Without Hedgehog Antigen Tumor Expression, Hedgehog antigen expression was measured with immunohistochemical methods in tumor tissue taken from each patient prior to enrollment in the study. The percentage of cells with (\> 0%) and without (0%) Hedgehog antigen expression was measured microscopically. PFS was defined as the time between randomization and disease progression, as confirmed by radiography, or death for any reason. Tumor assessments by computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis were performed at screening and every 8 weeks during the study., From randomization date through the data cut-off date of May 15, 2010, up to 100 weeks|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from randomization until death by any cause., From randomization date through the data cut-off date of May 15, 2010, up to 100 weeks
The study was a Phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter clinical trial of vismodegib (GDC-0449) in patients with ovarian cancer in a second or third complete remission. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either vismodegib or placebo. Randomization was stratified based on whether their cancer was in a second or third complete remission.