Rechallenge of BRAF +/- MEK Inhibitors Following an Adverse Event in Patients With Cancer
Very little data are published on the safety of a rechallenge with a BRAF inhibitor or combination of BRAF and MEK inhibitor (BRAFi and MEKi) after an adverse event (AE). This study aimed at identifying the recurrence rate of the same AE after a BRAFi +/- MEKi rechallenge in patients with cancer and the factors associated to the recurrence.
Cancer
DRUG: BRAF inhibitor
Recurrence rate, The primary outcome is the rate of recurrence of the same AE after a BRAFi+/- MEKi rechallenge among informative rechallenges The recurrence rate will be obtained by dividing the number of cases with an AE recurrence by the number of informative rechallenges and will be expressed as a percentage, Up to the date of the individual case safety report notification in VigiBase(r), assessed up to 10 years
Comparison of rechallenge and non-rechallenge cases, Baseline characteristics (initial adverse event, cancer indication, age, sex) Measurements are the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities preferred terms for adverse events and cancer indications, the Anatomical and Therapeutical Class for drugs. Age is categorized (18-45, 45-64, 65-74, \> 75y.o.), sex (male, female)., Up to 10 years|Factors associated with the recurrence after a rechallenge among informative rechallenges (i.e. variables associated with a higher recurrence rate, in a regression model), Across baseline characteristics (initial adverse event, cancer indication, age, sex). Measurements are the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities preferred terms for adverse events and cancer indications, the Anatomical and Therapeutical Class for drugs. Age is categorized (18-45, 45-64, 65-74, \> 75y.o.), sex (male, female).

The recurrence is defined as a second occurrence of an initial adverse event after the treatment was reintroduced. It is a dichotomous outcome.

Data will be analyzed through a regression model, so as to determinate which of these covariates are associated with a higher recurrence rate., Up to 10 years|Rate of occurrence of a different AE after a monotherapy or combination therapy rechallenge (among informative rechallenges), The occurrence rate will be obtained by dividing the number of cases with another AE that occurred following a treatment rechallenge by the number of informative rechallenges and will be expressed as a percentage, Up to the date of the individual case safety report notification in VigiBase(r), assessed up to 10 years
This is an observational, cross-sectional, pharmacovigilance cohort study. AEs were extracted from safety reports from the World Health Organization database VigiBase®, to evaluate the safety of a rechallenge with a BRAF inhibitor or combination of BRAF and MEK inhibitor (BRAFi and MEKi) after an adverse event (AE) in patients with cancer.