131I-Omburtamab, in Recurrent Medulloblastoma and Ependymoma
A Phase 2 study investigating the addition of cRIT 131I-omburtamab to irinotecan, temozolomide, and bevacizumab for patients with recurrent medulloblastoma. A feasibility cohort is included to assess the feasibility of incorporating cRIT 131I-omburtamab for patients with recurrent ependymoma.

Direct intraventricular delivery of radiolabeled tumor-specific antibodies may aid in both the detection and treatment of recurrent disease for these highly specific pediatric patients with recurrent tumors.
Recurrent Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Ependymoma
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Omburtamab I-131|DRUG: Liothyronine|DRUG: SSKI|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Antipyretic|DRUG: Antihistamine|DRUG: anti-emetics
2-year event free survival (EFS) in the Recurrent Medulloblastoma Cohort, Using the Kaplan Meier method, estimate of event-free survival (EFS) of patients with relapsed medulloblastoma treated with the study regimen. EFS is defined as the interval of time between enrollment on the study and the minimum date of documentation of progressive disease, death due to any cause, subsequent malignancy or date of last follow-up., 2 years|Percentage of Patients who met feasibility criteria in the Recurrent Ependymoma Cohort, Percentage of patients who met feasibility criteria of incorporating cRIT 131I-omburtamab treatment for patients with recurrent ependymoma. Patients who meet both of the following criteria will be counted as feasibility successes: 1) Administration of the first therapeutic dose of the antibody at the treating institution within 6 days of labeling. 2) Successful acquisition of all 3 SPECT scans during the Dosimetry Course prior to Radioimmunotherapy., 3 months
Overall survival (OS) in in Recurrent Medulloblastoma Cohort, Using the Kaplan Meier method, estimate of the overall survival (OS) of patients with recurrent medulloblastoma treated with the study regimen. OS is defined as the interval of time between enrollment on the study and the minimum date of death due to any cause or date of last follow-up., 5 years|Percentage of Recurrent Ependymoma patients with B7H3 reactivity, All recurrent ependymoma patients must be screened for B7H3 reactivity to be eligible for treatment on this study. B7H3 reactivity in pre-treatment formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tumor tissue will be assessed by IHC performed in a CLIA-certified lab. Patients whose tumors meet the reactivity criteria will be counted towards this percentage over the total number of patients who were screened., 1 month|Event free survival (EFS) for Recurrent Ependymoma, Using the Kaplan Meier method, estimate of EFS of patients with recurrent ependymoma following incorporation of intraOmmaya 131I-omburtamab treatment. EFS is defined as the interval of time between enrollment on the study and the minimum date of documentation of progressive disease, death due to any cause, subsequent malignancy or date of last follow-up., 5 years from enrollment completion|Overall survival (OS) for Recurrent Ependymoma, Using the Kaplan Meier method, estimate OS of patients with recurrent ependymoma following incorporation of intraOmmaya 131I-omburtamab treatment. OS is defined as the interval of time between enrollment on the study and the minimum date of death due to any cause or date of last follow-up., 5 years from enrollment completion|Estimate of Mean Absorbed Radiation Dose, To assess the distribution of 131I-omburtamab, Recurrent Ependymoma patients will receive one dosimetry dose (2 mCi) of cRIT 131I-omburtamab with three serial nuclear medicine scintigraphy using SPECT during the Dosimetry Course (1 week in length) prior to receiving the therapeutic dose. Organ dosimetry will be analyzed for whole body and regions of interest (ROI) and calculated based on nuclear imaging scans by whole-body planar gamma camera scans. ROIs in each planar dataset will be defined at each time point if signal is visibly above the immediate background. The mean absorbed radiation dose in CSF and whole blood will be estimated via imaging-based estimation (CSF)., 1 month|Number of Recurrent Medulloblastoma and Ependymoma Participants with Grade 3 or higher 131I-omburtamab - Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Number of patients in the combined cohort (Recurrent Medulloblastoma and Ependymoma) who received at least 1 dose of 131I-omburtamab and experienced Adverse Events that were deemed at least possibly related to 131I-omburtamab will be reported by AE category as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0., 1 year
Stratum 1: This is a phase 2 single-arm open-label study that will define event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) following therapy with irinotecan, temozolomide, bevacizumab, and compartmental (intraOmmaya) radioimmunotherapy (cRIT) 131I-omburtamab in patients with recurrent medulloblastoma. Patients with recurrent medulloblastoma will undergo surgery if feasible prior to study entry, followed by Induction Chemotherapy with irinotecan, temozolomide, and bevacizumab on study as per the Children's Oncology Group (COG) trial ACNS0821. Following 2 or 4 courses of chemotherapy and if radiographic disease status is stable or improved, patients may continue to Radioimmunotherapy to receive 2 therapeutic doses (50 mCi each) of cRIT 131I-omburtamab. Following Radioimmunotherapy, patients may resume to Maintenance Chemotherapy with irinotecan, temozolomide, and bevacizumab for up to 12 total courses of chemotherapy or until disease progression, whichever occurs sooner. The primary comparison for this study will be the medulloblastoma cohort treated on ACNS0821 on the irinotecan + temozolomide + bevacizumab arm (N=52).

Stratum 2: This is a feasibility cohort. The primary objective is to assess feasibility of incorporating cRIT 131I-omburtamab for patients with recurrent ependymoma and to assess dosimetry. Patients must have progressed after initial surgery, radiation therapy, or other therapies. Patients will undergo surgery (if feasible) prior to study entry with the goal of achieving stable or better disease. Tumors (archived or new) will be tested for B7H3 prior to enrollment. If positive, patients will enroll on Stratum 2 and receive one dosimetry dose (2 mCi) of cRIT 131I-omburtamab with nuclear medicine scintigraphy (typically using 3 whole-body planar gamma camera imaging and at least 1 head SPECT scan or SPECT/CT) using SPECT during the Dosimetry Course (14 days in length). Following the Dosimetry Course and within 2 weeks of the dosimetry dose, patients may continue to Radioimmunotherapy to receive 2 therapeutic doses (50 mCi each) of cRIT 131I-omburtamab.