Apatinib Combined With Oral Etoposide in Metastatic HER2 Negative Breast Cancer
The hypothesis of this study is to discover if the all-oral therapy with apatinib plus oral Etoposide can shrink or slow the growth of pretreated HER2 negative metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: apatinib+oral etoposide
objective response rate(ORR), Objective response rate defined as confirmed complete response or partial response under RECIST 1.1 criteria. CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. To be assigned a status of CR or PR, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no fewer than 4 weeks after the response criteria are first met., up to 1 year after the last patient enrolled
disease control rate(DCR), Number of participants with stable disease or partial response or complete response treating by anloitnib according to RESIST criteria v1.1., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods is defined as the time from the date of informed consent to the earlier of death or disease progression. Patients alive without disease progression are censored at the date of last disease evaluation. Progressive disease (PD) based on RECIST 1.1 is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Equivocal progression of non-target lesions also qualifies as PD., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 24 months|overall survival(OS), OS, defined as the time from the date of informed consent until to the date of death, regardless of the cause of death., From date of enrollment until death, assessed up to 24 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, All the treatment-related adverse events occurred as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Apatinib is an orally administered second-generation blocker of the phosphorylation of the tyrosine residues within the intracellular domain of VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2). A prospective, open label, phase II multicenter trial of apatinib in heavily pretreated patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer demonstrated that the daily dose of apatinib 500 mg/day is active in pretreated metastatic TNBC with encouraging rates of disease stabilization and PFS.

Etoposide is a highly active drug in the treatment of MBC, both as a single agent or in combination regimens, and is well tolerated, with a low incidence of severe toxicity. Clinical trials demonstrated oral Etoposide provided comparable effectiveness to iv Etoposide. and oral availability allows using different schedules.

The NCCN guideline introduces that combination chemotherapy is one of the standard treatment options in metastatic breast cancer, especially in patients with visceral metastases and/or need of rapid symptom or disease control.

Theoretically, anti-angiogenesis regimen combined with chemotherapy may present increasing therapeutic effect. Related researches are urgently needed to find optimal combined therapy.

The hypothesis of this study is to discover if the all-oral therapy with apatinib plus oral Etoposide can shrink or slow the growth of pretreated HER2 negative breast cancer. The safety of the combination will also be studied. Patients physical state, symptoms, changes in the size of the tumor, and laboratory findings obtained while on-study will help the research team decide if this combination is safe and effective in pretreated HER2 negative metastatic breast cancer patients.