FIT and Fecal Calprotectin in Patients With Chronic Lower GI Symptoms
Chronic lower gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms, including lower abdominal pain, bowel habit change, bleeding per rectum, and abdominal bloating, are caused by functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID) and organic intestinal disorders, including colorectal cancer and chronic colitis. The presence of alarming features, such as the age of onset older than 50 years, rectal bleeding, anemia, significant weight loss, and family history of colorectal cancer, indicates organic diseases, and colonoscopy should be required. However, using only alarming features may not be sufficiently accurate. For example, anemia or significant weight loss, which are highly specific for organic disorders, usually occur in late-stage diseases. Conversely, the parameters with high sensitivity, such as the age of onset after 50 years, have a low specificity; colonoscopy in these patients may not be urgent. Therefore, tests that can help discriminate organic from functional diseases are warranted. Immunochemical fecal occult blood tests (iFOBT) and fecal calprotectin (FC) are biomarkers that indicate organic lesions in the gastrointestinal tract and could help diagnose patients with lower GI symptoms more accurately.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Adenoma|Colitis
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Fecal calprotectin|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Fecal immunochemical test
The diagnostic performance of fecal calprotectin in diagnosis of significant ileocolonic lesions, The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of fecal calprotectin in diagnosis of significant ileocolonic lesions, including colorectal cancer, advanced adenoma, and ileocolitis, compared to colonoscopic diagnosis, 1 month
The diagnostic performance of fecal immunochemical test in diagnosis of significant ileocolonic lesions, The sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of fecal immunochemical test in diagnosis of significant ileocolonic lesions, including colorectal cancer, advanced adenoma, and ileocolitis, compared to colonoscopic diagnosis, 1 month
This study was a single-center, prospective cohort study undertaken at Siriraj hospital between March 2020 to November 2022. Eligible participants were required to collect their stool samples one to two days before the bowel preparation. The stool was sent for fresh smear examination, quantitative FIT (OC-SENSOR, EIKEN CHEMICAL, Japan), and quantitative fecal calprotectin (EliA Calprotectin 2, Phadia, Sweden). Blood samples were obtained on the day of the colonoscopy and were tested for complete blood count, albumin, and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels. In addition, clinical information was obtained, including alarm features such as the age of onset older than 50 years, rectal bleeding, anemia, significant weight loss, and family history of colorectal cancer. Colonoscopic findings and histopathological findings were used as the reference standard for diagnosis. We analyzed the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) for diagnosing significant ileocolonic lesions, including colorectal cancer, advanced adenoma, and colitis, of each diagnostic modality comparing to the reference standard.