Anti-SEMA4D Monoclonal Antibody VX15/2503 With Nivolumab or Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Stage III or IV Melanoma
This randomized pilot phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of anti-SEMA4D monoclonal antibody VX15/2503 when given together with nivolumab or ipilimumab in treating patients with stage III or IV melanoma. Monoclonal antibodies, such as anti-SEMA4D monoclonal antibody VX15/2503, nivolumab, and ipilimumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Metastatic Melanoma|Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-SEMA4D Monoclonal Antibody VX15/2503|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Maximum tolerated dose of anti-SEMA4D monoclonal antibody VX15/2503 determined by dose limiting toxicity assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Simple descriptive statistics will be used to summarize toxicities observed at each monitoring visit through the treatment and follow up period such as absolute neutrophil count), severity (by Toxicity Table) and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures, time of onset (i.e. course number), duration, and reversibility or outcome. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by course. Baseline information (e.g. the extent of prior therapy) and demographic information will be presented, as well, to describe the patients treated in this pilot study., Up to 21 days
Antitumor activity assessed using tumor response, Potential objective responses classifications (complete response \[CR\], partial response \[PR\] and stable disease) to this combinatorial immunotherapy will be defined and recorded following Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, immune related response criterion (irRC) and immune related RECIST (irRECIST) criteria., Up to 5 years|Duration of response, From the time measurement criteria is met for CR/PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented up to 5 years|Frequency of tumor measurements, Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events based on the Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0, Adverse events will be tabulated by type, severity, and the frequency and proportion of subjects experiencing the event., Up to 2 years|Response for in-transit metastasis, Response will be assessed, taking the measurement from pictures with a built-in ruler., Up to 5 years
T cell Infiltration, Will be analyzed using quantitative digital pathology., Baseline and 4 weeks after treatment starts|T cell receptor (TCR) clonality in tumors, Will analyze TCR clonality by deep sequencing the TCR Vbeta complementarity-determining region (CDR) region using the ImmunoSeq assay from Adaptive Biotech., Baseline and 4 weeks after treatment starts|Tumor immune microenvironment, Will be assessed using immunohistochemistry and analyzed using quantitative digital pathology., Baseline and 4 weeks after treatment starts
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of anti-SEMA4D monoclonal antibody VX15/2503 (anti-SEMA4D VX15/2503) with nivolumab, or ipilimumab, in melanoma patients who have progressed on anti-PD1/L1 based checkpoint inhibitors.

II. To determine the recommended phase II dose and schedule of the combination of anti-SEMA4D VX15/2503 with nivolumab, or ipilimumab, in melanoma patients who have progressed on anti-PD1/L1 based checkpoint inhibitors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Define the adverse event profile for the agent combinations and determine attribution (i.e. drug related adverse events \[AEs\]); II. To evaluate clinical response of patients treated with maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum administered dose (MAD) of the combination of anti-SEMA4D with nivolumab, or ipilimumab.

III. To evaluate whether adding anti-SEMA4D to PD1 or CTLA-4 blockade can increase T-cell infiltration into tumors and whether change in T-cell infiltration is associated with response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of anti-SEMA4D monoclonal antibody VX15/2503. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive anti-SEMA4D monoclonal antibody VX15/2503 intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes and nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 28 days for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive anti-SEMA4D monoclonal antibody VX15/2503 IV over 60 minutes and ipilimumab IV over 30 minutes every 21 days for courses 1-4, then receive anti-SEMA4D monoclonal antibody VX15/2503 every 28 days for subsequent courses for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, then annually thereafter.