Bevacizumab and Docetaxel in Treating Women With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is to see if combining bevacizumab with docetaxel works in treating women who have locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them. Combining chemotherapy with monoclonal antibody therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: docetaxel|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response rate according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), The response rate will be estimated with exact binomial 95% confidence intervals., Up to 4 years|Side effects as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 2.0, Up to 4 years
Correlation of biologic studies with clinical outcomes, Associations between laboratory endpoints (pre-study plasma VEGF and IL-8, E-selectin, P-selectin, CD31, ICAM-1, VCAM_1, CD44, PDGF, FGF, MMP-2 and MMP-9.) and response or toxicity will be investigated using Wilcoxon rank-sum tests for ordinal or continuous endpoints, or chi-square tests for binary or categorical endpoints., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate in women with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer treated with bevacizumab and docetaxel.

II. Determine the side effects of this regimen in these patients. III. Correlate soluble activated endothelial cell markers and adhesion molecules, quantitation of tumor and/or endothelial cell apoptosis, and quantitation of microvessel density with clinical outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on weeks 1 and 3 and docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on weeks 1, 2, and 3. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 12 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. After completion of 6 courses of combined treatment, patients with an ongoing response may receive bevacizumab alone in the absence of disease progression.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 16-27 patients will be accrued for this study within 14-27 months.