Sacituzumab Govitecan in Patients With Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer Progressing on Second Generation AR-Directed Therapy
This study will investigate the safety and efficacy of Sacituzumab Govitecan in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer progressing on second generation androgen receptor (AR) directed therapy (e.g., enzalutamide, darolutamide, apalutamide and/or abiraterone).
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Sacituzumab Govitecan
PSA Response Rate, Subjects who achieve ≥50% PSA decline at or before 9 weeks of therapy with Sacituzumab Govitecan (IMMU-132) are considered to have responded. PSA responses will be analyzed by descriptive statistics and summarized in tabular format (frequency tables). The overall PSA response rate will be reported along with the corresponding 95% confidence interval which will be constructed using the Wilson score method., up to 9 weeks|6-Month Progression Free Survival Rate, Proportion of participants remaining alive and progression free (using Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) criteria) 6 months from time of starting treatment as estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., 6 months
Median Progression Free Survival Rate, The probability distribution of Progression Free Survival (PFS) will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median will be estimated from this distribution. Subjects who have not died or progressed (using PCWG2 criteria) will be censored at the date of last assessment., Up to 2 years from start of treatment|Radiologic Response Rate, The number of participants with progressive disease, stable disease, partial response and complete response will be summarized in tabular format. The overall response rate will be reported along with the corresponding 95% confidence interval which will be constructed using the Wilson score method., up to 2 years from start of treatment|Median Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is the duration from start of treatment until death from any cause. The probability distribution of OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median will be estimated from this distribution. Subjects who have not died will be censored at the date of last contact., Up to 2 years from start of treatment|Toxicity Rates (Grade 2, Grade 3, Grade 4, Grade ≥ 2, Grade ≥ 3, Etc.), Toxicities will be summarized by type and severity in tabular format. Toxicity rates (Grade 2, Grade 3, Grade 4, Grade ≥ 2, Grade ≥ 3, etc.) will be calculated and reported along the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. The 95% confidence intervals will be constructed using the Wilson score method., Up to 9 weeks from start of treatment
This study will investigate the safety and efficacy of Sacituzumab Govitecan in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer progressing on second generation AR-directed therapy. Patients who have progressed while on therapy with combination enzalutamide/abiraterone or ARN-509/abiraterone as part of ongoing clinical trials are allowed and may be enrolled in the study. To better understand the heterogeneity of response and in particular to identify patients likely to benefit, an extensive correlative biomarker program will be included to collect and analyze tumor tissue biopsies, circulating tumor cells (CTCs), and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA).

A validated predictive biomarker would benefit the individual patient by enabling him to be treated with a safe effective oral drug and avoid one from which he is unlikely to benefit. It is also essential for prostate cancer drug development because the increasing availability of more life-prolonging therapies is making it more difficult to prove a survival benefit for the next promising agent.