A Percutaneous Ultrasound Device With Needle Guide for Vascular Access
This first-in-human pilot study seeks to evaluate the feasibility and safety of using a percutaneous ultrasound device with needle guide for vascular access. Eligible participants will undergo the procedure of transcatheter arterial chemoembolization for primary or metastatic liver cancer, as part of participants' clinical care. The percutaneous ultrasound device with needle guide will be deployed in eligible participants at the beginning of the procedure for guiding a needle inside the femoral artery. Once the needle is inside the artery, then a guide wire is advanced inside the needle and vascular access is successfully obtained.

The study will identify whether this ultrasound-based device with needle guide is helpful for guiding a needle inside the femoral artery.
Vascular Access
DEVICE: Vu-Path™
Device Safety as assessed by number of participants with Minor Bleeding, Device Safety will be assessed by the number of participants experiencing minor bleeding resulting from vascular puncture. Minor bleeding is defined as either a) bleeding that requires no therapy, or has no consequences or, b) requires nominal therapy, or has no consequence or, c) includes overnight admission for observation only., Within 24 hours from intervention|Device Safety as assessed by number of participants with Major Bleeding, Device Safety will be assessed by the number of participants experiencing major bleeding. Major bleeding is defined as bleeding that either a) requires therapy and minor hospitalization (25-48 hours) or, b) requires major therapy, unplanned increase in level of care and prolonged hospitalization (\> 48 hours), or c) has permanent adverse sequelae or, d) results in death., Within 3 days from intervention
Technical accuracy as assessed by number of attempts to reach target site, Number of attempts to reach target site, Within 1 hour from intervention|Technical accuracy as assessed by percentage of first attempt accesses to target site, Percentage of first attempt accesses to target site., Within 1 hour from intervention|Technical efficacy as assessed by procedure time (minutes), Procedure time is defined as the total time needed for device procedure., Within 1 hour from intervention|Technical efficacy as assessed by target access time (minutes), Target access time is defined as the total time needed from target visualization to target access., Within 1 hour from intervention|Technical efficacy as assessed by device usage time (minutes), Device usage time is defined as the total time needed for device use., Within 1 hour from intervention
This NIH Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)-funded study seeks to test a forward-viewing, ultrasound (US)-based device with needle guide for vascular access.

Access to large arteries is an indispensable step of any trans-arterial catheterization procedure. Surface US-guided vascular cannulation greatly improves first-pass success and reduces complications and is recommended as the preferred technique by numerous specialties and governmental agencies. Surface US-guided cannulation has several key limitations, including dependence on operator skills and experience. Safety and success of vascular access could be vastly improved with a single integrated imaging/interventional device with a small footprint that enables a single-hand operation of the US probe and visualizes the operating needle in real-time.

Reliable and accurate real-time image guidance for vascular access has the potential to appreciably impact public health by enhancing patient safety and convenience, improving procedural accuracy and increasing procedure throughput. Successful implementation has the potential to reduce care and complication costs across millions of vascular access procedures.

Vu-Path™ is a small footprint, US-based device with needle guide. It is a dual-lumen instrument with parallel US imaging and interventional lumens. The forward-viewing US transducer is located at the catheter tip and focused such that the tip of the needle in the interventional lumen, and all proximate structures, are always clearly visualized in real time throughout the procedure.

This is a first-in-human pilot study of the Vu-Path™ device, aiming to its establish clinical feasibility and safety for exemplary use.