Predictability Studies on the Efficacy of TNF-α Inhibitors in Chinese RA From "Real World"
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic and disabling disease. tumor necrosis factor-a(TNF-a) inhibitors have demonstrated an outstanding performance in relieving joint inflammation and retarding bone erosion involved in RA. However, there is still about one-thirds of RA patients had a poor response to TNF α inhibitors. The Investigators hope to discover prediction protein with a domestic genetic background and finally establish prediction system with Chinese characteristics.
Rheumatoid Arthritis
DRUG: methotrexate(necessary)|BIOLOGICAL: infliximab|BIOLOGICAL: etanercept|BIOLOGICAL: adalimumab|DRUG: leflunomide (permitted, not necessary)|DRUG: NSAIDs (permitted,not necessary)|DRUG: Glucocorticoids (permitted,not necessary)
EULAR (European League Against Rheumatism) response will be assessed among patients of 3 groups, EULAR (European League Against Rheumatism) response is based on changes of DAS28-CRP. The following good, moderate and no response are defined based on changes of DAS28-CRP from baseline to weeks 14: \>1.2 units are good response; 0.6-1.2 units are moderate response; ≤0.6 units are no response.

The DAS28-CRP will be calculated at every visit within the clinical database. The components of the DAS28-CRP score assessment are: Tender/Painful Joint Count (28); Swollen Joint Count (28), hsCRP, and the Subject General Health VAS assessment. This efficacy measurement will be made at baseline and weeks 14., Baseline, Weeks 14
The changes of TNF level with different EULAR response will be assessed among patients of 3 groups., The TNF level assessment is a direct measurement using ELISA by testing patients' serum. This measurement will be made at baseline and weeks 14.

The classification of EULAR response and the calculation of DAS28-CRP are based on above of Primary Outcome Measure., Baseline, Weeks 14|The changes of Interest proteins with different EULAR response will be assessed among patients of 3 group., Interest proteins will be screened by iTRAQ (isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation). This measurement will be made at baseline and weeks 14 by comparing part of patients with good response or no response.

Interest proteins being screened will be verified by Western Blot among all patients of 3 groups.

The classification of EULAR response and the calculation of DAS28-CRP are based on above of Primary Outcome Measure., Baseline, Weeks 14|The SNP (Single nucleotide polymorphism) of gene about TNF with different EULAR response will be assessed among patients of 3 groups., SNP of TNF gene will be tested by PCR-RFLP (Polymerase Chain Reaction -Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism). This measurement will be made at weeks 14 among all 3 groups' patients.

The classification of EULAR response and the calculation of DAS28-CRP are based on above of Primary Outcome Measure., Weeks 14|The SNP of gene about interest proteins with different EULAR response will be assessed among patients of 3 groups., SNP of gene about interest proteins will tested by PCR-HRM(Polymerase Chain Reaction-high resolution melting). This measurement will be made at weeks 14 among all 3 groups' patients.

Interest proteins are screened and verified on above of Secondary Outcome Measure.

The classification of EULAR response and the calculation of DAS28-CRP are based on above of Primary Outcome Measure., Weeks 14
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic and disabling disease. TNF-α inhibitors have demonstrated an outstanding performance in relieving joint inflammation and retarding bone erosion involved in RA. However, there is still about one-thirds of RA patients had a poor response to TNF α inhibitors. Currently the personalized biological treatment is the research hotspot. Recent studies focuses on exploring biomarkers predictive of drug response. The research methods such as genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics and immunocytology, have been applied,but they are not successfully integrated. The related studies in China are still at an initial stage, which necessitates an in-depth study in this area. The investigators' preliminary study showed that TNF-α-308 gene polymorphisms existed in Chinese RA patients and phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt signal pathway was activated in proliferated synovial fibroblasts stimulated by TNF-α. Therefore, for the first attempt in China, the investigators intend to screen for differential proteins by using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation(iTRAQ) technique in RA patients receiving anti-TNF-α therapy, and then verify the predictive effects of selected differential proteins from the upstream gene polymorphism to the downstream protein expression. The investigators will also explore the mechanisms of differential proteins involved in TNF-α related signal pathway by using in vitro gene transfer, siRNA interference, and RA animal models. Through this study investigator hope to discover some prediction proteins with a domestic genetic background and finally establish a prediction system with Chinese characteristics.