Pilot Study on the Use of iENTER, iCONSENT and iPARTICIPATE E-tools
Precision oncology is the future of fighting cancer. Cancer Core Europe (CCE) developed a precision medicine trial, i.e. the Basket of Basket (BoB) study, to provide personalised treatment to a large number of patients by incorporating a molecular profiling platform. The EU-funded CCE_DART project, developed within the CCE Consortium, is aimed at improving efficiency and transform platform trials into data-rich translational research programmes. Within the CCE_DART project working area D "Patient involvement through information and partnership" three interconnected web e-tools were developed aimed at promoting patient information, recruitment, and involvement as well as facilitating adherence to the CCE BoB trial: 1) iENTER: informative web site addressed to potential BoB trial participants, their caregivers, patients' advocates, and the public; 2) iCONSENT: web app for remote management of the informed consent process in the CCE BoB trial.3) iPARTICIPATE: web app allowing remote access to BoB trial patients trial visits calendar, medications list and posology, to upload documents and download reports, messaging between patients and clinical staff. The main objective of this study is to carry out field testing and assess usability of the e-tools iENTER, iCONSENT and iPARTICIPATE. The study is also addressed at collecting patients' suggestions for improvements of the e-tools.
Cancer
SUS questionnaire, The SUS questionnaire consists of 10 Likert type items with five response options (from Strongly agree to Strongly disagree)., 31-1-2025
Precision oncology is the future of fighting cancer. Cancer Core Europe (CCE) developed a precision medicine trial, i.e. the Basket of Basket (BoB) study, to provide personalised treatment to a large number of patients by incorporating a molecular profiling platform. The EU-funded CCE_DART project, developed within the CCE Consortium, is aimed at improving efficiency and transform platform trials into data-rich translational research programmes. Within the CCE_DART project working area D "Patient involvement through information and partnership" three interconnected web e-tools were developed aimed at promoting patient information, recruitment, and involvement as well as facilitating adherence to the CCE BoB trial: 1) iENTER: informative web site addressed to potential BoB trial participants, their caregivers, patients' advocates, and the public; 2) iCONSENT: web app for remote management of the informed consent process in the CCE BoB trial.3) iPARTICIPATE: web app allowing remote access to BoB trial patients trial visits calendar, medications list and posology, to upload documents and download reports, messaging between patients and clinical staff. The main objective of this study is to carry out field testing and assess usability of the e-tools iENTER, iCONSENT and iPARTICIPATE. The study is also addressed at collecting patients' suggestions for improvements of the e-tools.