Selinexor With Fludarabine and Cytarabine for Treatment of Refractory or Relapsed Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of selinexor (KPT-330) and to find the highest dose of selinexor (KPT-330) that can be given safely when it is combined with two chemotherapy drugs (fludarabine and cytarabine). This study will be done in two parts: Phase I and Phase II.

The goal of Phase I is to find the highest tolerable dose of selinexor (KPT-330) that we can give to patients with leukemia or MDS, when it is combined with fludarabine and cytarabine.

The goal of the subsequent Phase II portion of the study (insert NCT ID of SELHEM-2) is to give the highest dose of selinexor (KPT-330) in combination with fludarabine/cytarabine that was found in Phase I to be safe for children with leukemia or MDS. The investigators will examine the effect of this combination treatment.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

* Determine a tolerable combination of selinexor, fludarabine, and cytarabine in pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies included acute myeloid leukemia (AML), acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), mixed phenotype acute leukemia (MPAL) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

* To characterize the pharmacokinetics of selinexor, when administered in tablet form, after the first dose and at steady-state, as well as in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine
* To estimate the overall response rate of selinexor given with fludarabine and cytarabine in patients with relapsed or refractory hematologic malignancies
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL)|Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS)|Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia (MPAL)
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: methotrexate/hydrocortisone/cytarabine
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of combination selinexor, fludarabine and cytarabine, The MTD is empirically defined as the highest dose level at which six participants have been treated with at most one participant experiencing a DLT and the next higher dose has been determined to be too toxic. If the lowest dose level studied is too toxic or the highest dose level studied is considered safe, the MTD will not have been considered estimated., MTD will be determined at the end of cycle 1 (day 35 of therapy)|Dose limiting toxicity of combination selinexor, fludarabine and cytarabine, Any participant who experiences dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) at any time during the first 35 days after taking the initial dose of selinexor and before receiving non-protocol therapy (such as transplant) is considered evaluable for toxicity. Participants without DLT who receive at least 5 of the 6 prescribed cycle I doses of selinexor and can be followed for 35 days following their initial dose of selinexor are also considered evaluable for toxicity. Participants who are not evaluable for toxicity (such as those removed early from therapy to start alternate therapy) at a given dose level will be replaced., During cycle 1 of therapy (days 1-35)
Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of selinexor, The pharmacokinetics of selinexor as well as selinexor in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine will be determined.

Plasma samples will be analyzed for selinexor concentration. Selinexor concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population PK model with potential covariates including age, body weight, gender, disease state, hepatic or renal function, concomitant medications, and treatment. Details of the population PK analysis, including software, post-processing and statistical analysis, will be outlined in a separate Data Analysis Plan. Interim analysis may be conducted on plasma selinexor concentration data throughout the study. Summary statistics, including mean, median, standard deviation, coefficient of variation and group size may be compiled and reported during the study. Interim analysis of PK parameters and biomarker analyses may be performed in order to provide a pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic assessment throughout the study., Days 1-3 (pre-dose, 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 4, 8, 24, and 48 hours after dose) and Day 22 (pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, and 8 hours after day 22 dose)|complete response rate, The efficacy of the combination of selinexor, fludarabine, and cytarabine, as measured by the complete response (CR) rate and the overall response (OR) rate (CR + CRi + PR) will be assessed for the patients enrolled at the MTD. The rates of CR and OR will be presented as a point estimate with a 95% exact binomial confidence interval., between days 28 and 35 of cycle 1|Overall response rate, The efficacy of the combination of selinexor, fludarabine, and cytarabine, as measured by the complete response (CR) rate and the overall response (OR) rate (CR + CRi + PR) will be assessed for the patients enrolled at the MTD. The rates of CR and OR will be presented as a point estimate with a 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Between days 28 and 35 of cycle 1|Area under the curve (AUC) of selinexor, The pharmacokinetics of selinexor as well as selinexor in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine will be determined.

Plasma samples will be analyzed for selinexor concentration. Selinexor concentration data will be analyzed in a non-linear mixed effects population PK model with potential covariates including age, body weight, gender, disease state, hepatic or renal function, concomitant medications, and treatment. Details of the population PK analysis, including software, post-processing and statistical analysis, will be outlined in a separate Data Analysis Plan. Interim analysis may be conducted on plasma selinexor concentration data throughout the study. Summary statistics, including mean, median, standard deviation, coefficient of variation and group size may be compiled and reported during the study. Interim analysis of PK parameters and biomarker analyses may be performed in order to provide a pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic assessment throughout the study., Days 1-3 (pre-dose, 30 minutes, and 1, 2, 4, 8, 24, and 48 hours after dose) and Day 22 (pre-dose and 1, 2, 4, and 8 hours after day 22 dose)
Phase I will characterize the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase II dose of selinexor when given in combination with fludarabine and cytarabine.

Selinexor will be given twice weekly (on days 1 and 3) and escalated or de-escalated based on tolerability. The rolling-6 design will be used for this study. Only cycle 1 of therapy will be used to evaluate the DLT. Two to six participants can be concurrently enrolled onto a dose level, dependent on 1) the number of participants enrolled at the current dose level, 2) the number of participants who have experienced DLT at the current dose level, and 3) the number of participants entered but with tolerability data pending at the current dose level. Accrual is suspended when a cohort of six has enrolled or when the study endpoints have been met.

Once the recommended Phase II dose is determined, additional patients will be enrolled, if necessary, so that at least 6 subjects are treated with the recommended Phase II dose to determine MTD. After the MTD is determined, 12 additional patients will be treated at this dose level for further evaluation of tolerability and response.