Tislelizumab and Radiotherapy for Recurrent Cervical Cancer
This study is a prospective, multicenter, phase II clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of albumin-bound paclitaxel plus bevacizumab for platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer. Patients with platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian cancer who meet the inclusion criteria, and don't meet any of the exclusion criteria, are enrolled in the study. They will receive albumin-bound paclitaxel (260 mg/m2) and bevacizumab (7.5mg/kg) intravenously every 21 days. The total treatment periods are no more than 6 cycles. Treatment continue until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or patient refusal. Objective response rates primary objective. Progression-free survival, overall survival, and safety are secondary objectives. The study will enroll a total of 50 patients.
Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Metastatic Cervical Carcinoma|Persistent Cervical Carcinoma|Radiotherapy|Immunotherapy|Anti-programmed Cell Death Receptor 1|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors|Tislelizumab|Objective Response Rate|Survival Outcomes
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Tislelizumab plus radiotherapy
Objective Response Rate, Overall survival is defined as the duration from date of enrollment to the date of death from any cause, 12 months
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time the duration from date of enrollment to the first documented disease progression, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 12 months|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration from date of enrollment to the date of death from any cause, 24 months|Adverse Events, Adverse event (AE), Treatment emergent adverse event (TEAE), Serious adverse event (SAE), 24 months
This study is a prospective, multicenter, phase II clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of albumin-bound paclitaxel plus bevacizumab for platinum-resistant recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer. Patients with platinum-resistant recurrent ovarian cancer who meet the inclusion criteria, and don't meet any of the exclusion criteria, are enrolled in the study. They will receive albumin-bound paclitaxel (260 mg/m2) and bevacizumab (7.5mg/kg) intravenously every 21 days. The total treatment periods are no more than 6 cycles. Treatment continue until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or patient refusal. Objective response rates primary objective. Progression-free survival, overall survival, and safety are secondary objectives. The study will enroll a total of 50 patients.