Resistance Exercise and Peer Support with Bands/balls and Digital Support Among Women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
The purpose of this one arm pilot was to assess the feasibility and acceptability of REPS w/BANDS and evaluate for signals of improvement for depressive symptoms, anthropometrics, and muscular endurance. Participants completed a 12-week personalized in-home resistance exercise program that was delivered in real-time via a smart home video device along with a buddy system for peer support.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
BEHAVIORAL: REPS w/BANDS
Recruitment, Screened participants # / Enrolled participants #, At the end of 12 weeks|Attendance, Session # attended / Session # prescribed, At the end of 12 weeks|Retention, Participant # completing 2nd assessment / Participant # completing baseline assessment, At the end of 12 weeks|Acceptability Interviews, Acceptability was measured via content analysis of participant interviews, At the end of 12 weeks|Acceptability Likert Scales, Questions of about satisfaction with REPS w/BANDS were scored on a scale of 0-4, with O indicating poor and 4 indicating excellent., At the end of 12 weeks
Depressive Symptoms, he Personal Health Questionnaire (PHQ-8) was used to assess prevalence and severity of depressive symptoms occurring within the past two weeks. The score is the sum of the 8 items. 0-4 = minimal or no depression, 5-9 = mild depression, 10-14 = moderate depression, 15-19 = moderately severe depression, 20-24 = severe depression, From baseline and at the end of 12 weeks|Bodyweight, Participants self-reported body weight in pounds during the fitness assessments., At baseline and at the end of 12 weeks|Height, Participants self-reported height in feet and inches during the fitness assessments., At baseline and at the end of 12 weeks|Waist Circumference, Participants were guided to measure waist circumference in inches during the fitness assessments., At baseline and at the end of 12 weeks|Squat Test, Lower body muscular endurance was measured using the squat test. The score was the number of squats performed with proper form., At baseline and at the end of 12 weeks|Modified Push Up Test, Upper body muscular endurance was measured with this test. The score was the number of correctly performed push-up in one minute., At baseline and at the end of 12 weeks|Curl Up Test, This test was used to measure muscular endurance of the core. The score was the number of curl up properly performed to a cadence of 40bpm., At baseline and at the end of 12 weeks
Research findings reveal that women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) report low exercise motivation due to PCOS stigma-related stress and lack of social connection, thus inhibiting exercise in public and group settings. The purpose of this study was to implement and assess the feasibility and acceptability of an in-home personalized resistance exercise (RE) program delivered in real time by a smart home video device (SHVD) with peer support provided by a buddy system. This theory-informed, one-arm proof-of-concept study provided participants (n=10) with an SHVD, exercise equipment (exercise bands, stability ball), and 2 supervised RE sessions per week for 12 weeks via the SHVD's video feature and incorporated strategies from self-determination theory to meet the psychological needs of autonomy, competence, and relatedness. Participants were randomly paired with a buddy. Feasibility, acceptability, depressive symptoms, anthropometrics, and muscular endurance were measured using surveys, fitness testing, and interviews. Quantitative data were calculated using t-tests. Qualitative data were analyzed via thematic analysis.