Atezolizumab and Bevacizumab Combination Recommended in a Multidisciplinary Consultation Meeting in Caen for Hepatocellular Carcinoma (ABCHCaen)
In France primary liver cancers (PLC) is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in men, and the seventh in women. The number of new cases per year is predicted to increase by 26.5% between 2020 and 2040. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) account for 75% to 85% of PLC. It occurs mostly on cirrhotic livers. Diagnosis remains late in almost half of the patients so that a palliatif treatment is frequent. In advanced cases sorafenib has been so far the first line systemic therapy since 2008. In 2020 a phase 3 study has demonstrated a better overall survival in patients treated with bevacizumab associated with atezolizumab as compared to sorafenib (19.2 months vs 13.4 months) and a better quality of life. Noweday immunotherapy is recommended in first line in cases of ECOG 0/1 unresectable HCC without liver insufficiency. However the study included 70% of viral liver diseases while HCC are related to alcohol and steatohepatitis in 50% of cases in France. Moreover patients with high risk of oesophageal variceal bleeding were excluded. Recent real life data published worldwide confirm the bitherapy efficacy and good tolerability. By contrast french data are scarces, with a single serie of 43 patients in which median overall survival was estimated to 12 months. Our main aim is to determine the overall survival of HCC patients treated with atezolizumab and bevacizumab in Caen from april 2021.
Atezolizumab and Bevacizumab in Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Overall survival, Overall survival in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, 3 years
progression-free survival, progression-free survival in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, 3 years|predictors of response to treatment, predictors of response to Atézolizumab and Bevacizumab, 3 years|treatment tolerance, treatment tolerance to Atézolizumab and Bevacizumab, 3 years
In France primary liver cancers (PLC) is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in men, and the seventh in women. The number of new cases per year is predicted to increase by 26.5% between 2020 and 2040. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) account for 75% to 85% of PLC. It occurs mostly on cirrhotic livers. Diagnosis remains late in almost half of the patients so that a palliatif treatment is frequent. In advanced cases sorafenib has been so far the first line systemic therapy since 2008. In 2020 a phase 3 study has demonstrated a better overall survival in patients treated with bevacizumab associated with atezolizumab as compared to sorafenib (19.2 months vs 13.4 months) and a better quality of life. Noweday immunotherapy is recommended in first line in cases of ECOG 0/1 unresectable HCC without liver insufficiency. However the study included 70% of viral liver diseases while HCC are related to alcohol and steatohepatitis in 50% of cases in France. Moreover patients with high risk of oesophageal variceal bleeding were excluded. Recent real life data published worldwide confirm the bitherapy efficacy and good tolerability. By contrast french data are scarces, with a single serie of 43 patients in which median overall survival was estimated to 12 months. Our main aim is to determine the overall survival of HCC patients treated with atezolizumab and bevacizumab in Caen from april 2021.