Biomarkers for Apatinib and Bevacizumab in Second-line Therapy for Colorectal Cancer(BABST-C)
Bevacizumab, an antibody against vascular endothelial generated factor (VEGF), combined with the fluorouracil-based chemotherapy regimens has been approved in the 1st and 2nd line treatments for metastatic colorectal cancers(mCRC). Other inhibitors of the VEGF pathway, such as Ramucirumab and Aflibercept are also approved in the 2nd line therapy. Apatinib is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), which can highly selectively bind to and strongly block VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR - 2), resulting in reduced cell migration, proliferation, and tumor microvascular density mediated by VEGF . In this study, the patients who have progressed following or on the first-line oxaliplatin and fluorouracil（5-FU） combined with bevacizumab are randomised into two arms(FOLFIRI plus apatinib or FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab) in the 2nd line setting. To identify specific biomarkers at the genetic and proteomic levels between two arms is the primary end point.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Apatinib Mesylate Tablets|DRUG: Bevacizumab Injection
Identify biomarkers specific to apatinib or bevacizumab by transcriptome analysis, Identify differentially expressed genes specific to apatinib or bevacizumab by the next-generation RNA-seq technology ., 4 years|Identify biomarkers specific to apatinib or bevacizumab by proteomic analysis, Identify proteomic molecules specific to apatinib or bevacizumab by the photoreactive crosslinking, pull-down, affinity purification and mass spectrometry (AP-MS) analyses, 4 years
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) \[according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v). 1.1\] or death due to any cause, whichever was first. PD is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). Participants who died without a reported prior progression were considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who did not progress or were lost to follow-up were censored at the day of their last radiographic tumor assessment., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 6 months after admission, up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time in months from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of the cut-off date, OS was censored at the last known date alive., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 6 months after admission,up to 2 years
Based on inclusion and exclusion criteria, eligible mCRC patients are enrolled. the chest-abdonimal-pelvic CT with brain MRI and blood tests are examined to assess base-line measurable lesions and guarantee adequate organ function prior to enrollment. The written consents are signed before enrollment. Randomise patients into two arms: Arm A-apatinib plus FOLFIRI regimen and arm B-bevacizumab plus FOLFIRI regimen. Patients will be given full-dose drugs or reduced-dose drugs if serious toxicities ( CTCAE v4.0 criteria grade 3/4) are complained since previous cycle of treatment.

Symptoms and blood test results (including carcinoembryonic antigen（CEA）and CA199) before each cycle will be recorded. Radiological assessment consisting of chest-abdonimal-pelvic CT together with brain MRI will be performed every 3 months.

Collect biopsy specimens and peripheral blood from mCRC patients every 3 months since randomisation. Identify differential biomarkers between apatinib and bevacizumab and define these biomarkers' prognostic and predictive significances.