Topical Diclofenac for Prevention of Radiation-induced Dermatitis
Radiation induced dermatitis (RID) is one of the leading adverse events of radiation therapy, and if occurred could alter the course of therapy. The main pathways of RID is inflammation and oxidative stress on local and systemic bases. The Diclofenac is a COX-2 inhibitor and Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs whose anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities have been proven in several clinical trials. Thus, the aim of the present study is to evaluate the efficacy of Diclofenac sodium gel as a prophylactic method against the development of RID.
Head and Neck Tumor|Breast Cancer
DRUG: Diclofenac Sodium Gel|OTHER: Placebo gel
Incidence of development of grade ≥ 2 RID, If the patient developed grade ≥ 2 RID or not, RTOG standards were used for evaluation, From the first day of radiotherapy until 2 weeks after the end of radiotherapy
Evaluation of Time to develop grade ≥2 RID, EvaluationTime to develop grade ≥ 2 RID incidence, will be assessed by RTOG criteria based on the clinical presentation of Time to develop grade ≥2 RID, From the first day of radiotherapy until 2 weeks after the end of radiotherapy|Evaluation of Pain Intensity, Pain related assessment will be done through a Visual Analog Scale, with 0 being No pain and 10 being unbearable pain, From the first day of radiotherapy until 2 weeks after the end of radiotherapy|Evaluation of Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Patients will be educated and instructed to report any adverse events, From the first day of radiotherapy through treatment completion(up to 7 weeks or 5 weeks)|Evaluation of Quality of life, Skin-related quality of life assessed through the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), From the first day of radiotherapy until 2 weeks after the end of radiotherapy|Incidence of radiotherapy interruption, If the patient has been interrupted by RID or not, From the first day of radiotherapy through treatment completion (up to 7 weeks or 5 weeks)|The Concentration of inflammatory factors (IL-2、IL-4 、IL-6、IL-10、interferon-γ、TNF-α), The differences in expression of inflammatory factors, such as IL-2 (pg/ml）,IL-4 (pg/ml）,IL-6 (pg/ml）,IL-10 (pg/ml）,interferon-γ（pg/ml） and TNF-α（pg/ml）., Baseline（Day 0） and through study completion（Day 36 or Day 46）|The Concentration of inflammatory factors (WBC), The differences in expression of inflammatory factors, such as WBC(10\^9/L)., Baseline（Day 0） and through study completion（Day 36 or Day 46）|The Concentration of inflammatory factors (CRP), The differences in expression of inflammatory factors, such as CRP（mg/L）., Baseline（Day 0） and through study completion（Day 36 or Day 46）
Radiation induced dermatitis (RID) is one of the most commonly reported adverse events of Head and neck tumor, breast cancer radiation therapy (RT). Radiation therapy toxicity is exhibited within hours to weeks of exposure and persisting throughout the course of treatment. Radiation induced dermatitis is a result of generation of reactive oxygen species (ROSs), which in return induces epidermal and dermal inflammatory responses. Radiation causes structural tissue damage, which trigger production of pro-inflammatory mediators; as NF-κB, COX-2, and cytokines such as IL-6, TNF-a, and IFN- γ. Subsequently erythema, ulceration, and edema are developed，then followed by thinning of the epidermis, dry desquamation. If damage is more severe, moist desquamation occur. It can be deduced that inflammatory response plays a significant role in the radiotherapy induced dermatitis.

There are many agents that are used in the management of RID in the clinical settings, however, up till now there is none supported by the guidelines. Radiation induced dermatitis occurrence, not only could it impair the patient's quality of life but it could also affect the RT course of treatment, which could negatively influence the cancer treatment. Therefore more effort is needed to find a method of prevention of RID, resulting from Head and neck tumor,breast cancer RT.

Diclofenac sodium gel, a COX-2 inhibitor and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (non-NSAID), is widely used to treat inflammatory conditions, and studies show that topical diclofenac has no safety concerns. It has been used for more than 20 years in patients with osteoarthritis without any significant adverse effects. The combination of diclofenac sodium as a COX-2 inhibitor and ionising radiation not only enhances the effect of radiation on tumour cells, but also improves radiation therapy for patients. Studies have shown that diclofenac sodium gel, through COX-2, can be used to prevent the development of capecitabine-induced hand-foot syndrome (HFS). RID upregulates COX-2 due to inflammatory stimulation, and COX-2 indirectly produces reactive oxygen species (ROS). The investigators conclude that diclofenac gel can reduce ROS by locally inhibiting COX-2 enzyme, thus preventing radiation dermatitis and reducing skin damage. Therefore, the investigators plan to conduct a study on the use of diclofenac sodium gel in radiation dermatitis to investigate the incidence of RID grade 2 and above at different time points after radiotherapy in patients with head and neck tumours, and whether it can reduce the incidence and severity of RID-related symptoms.