A Phase II Study Evaluating the Safety and Efficacy of Subcutaneous Plerixafor
This is a Phase II, open-label, two strata, multicenter, prospective study of plerixafor-mobilized HLA-identical sibling allografts in recipients with hematological malignancies. This study will establish the safety and efficacy of subcutaneous plerixafor for this purpose.
Related Donors Donating Peripheral Blood Stem Cells (PBSC) to a Family Member|Acute Myelogenous Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Hodgkin's Disease|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Plerixafor
Percentage of Donors Whose Cells Were Successfully Mobilized and Collected With a Sufficient CD34+ Cell Dose Using Plerixafor as the Mobilizing Agent, Using an Intention-to-treat Analysis., Donor mobilization following plerixafor was considered successful if ≥ 2.0x106 CD34+ cells/kg recipient weight was collected in no more than two leukapheresis collections., donation
Incidence and Severity of Acute Toxicities, Incidence and severity of acute toxicities before and during apheresis experienced by donors receiving plerixafor. Acute toxicities are graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0. This outcome measure is descriptive. Grade of maximum toxicity across all time points is reported. Higher grades denote worse outcomes. 0 = None, 1 = Mild, 2 = Moderate, 3 = severe., baseline, Day 1, Day 2, Day 3|Adverse Effects, Adverse effects experienced by donors receiving plerixafor up to one year post donation. Number of participants with a maximum MTC \>0 reported at each individual time point. Adverse effects are graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0. This outcome measure is descriptive. Participants can experience adverse effects at more than one time point evaluated. Higher grades denote worse outcomes. 0 = None, 1 = Mild, 2 = Moderate, 3 = severe., 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 120 minutes, 240 minutes, 1 month, 6 months, 12 months post donation for each subject|Incidence of and Kinetics of Neutrophil and Platelet Recovery After Transplantation of Hematopoietic Cells Mobilized With Plerixafor, Incidence of and kinetics of neutrophil and platelet recovery by day 100 in recipients after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor., Day +1 through neutrophil recovery or Day 21 (whichever is first)|T-cell (CD3+) and Myeloid (CD33+) Chimerism After Transplantation of Hematopoietic Cells Mobilized With Plerixafor, T-cell (CD3+) and myeloid (CD33+) chimerism in recipients after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor. This outcome measure is descriptive., Chimerism was evaluated at serial timepoints post HCT in patients in both RIC and MAC strata. Chimerism was assessed at Day +28, +100, +180, and +365|Primary Graft Failure After Transplantation of Hematopoietic Cells Mobilized With Plerixafor, Incidence of primary graft failure in recipients after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor. This outcome measure is descriptive., Day 28|Incidence of Acute Graft-versus-host Disease (GVHD), Incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in recipients after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor, Day 100|Immune Reconstitution, Rate and quality of immune reconstitution as evidenced by peripheral blood immunophenotype after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor., Day 28, 100, 180, 365|Incidence of Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Reactivation After Transplantation With Cells Mobilized With Plerixafor., Percentage of recipients with prior CMV infection whose CMV was reactivated after transplantation with cell mobilized with plerixafor, day 365|Treatment-related Mortality and Disease Relapse/Progression, Incidence of treatment-related mortality and disease relapse/progression in recipients after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor, Day 180, 365|Progression-free and Overall Survival, Probability of progression-free and overall survival after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor, Day 180, 365|Cellular Composition of Allografts, Cellular composition of allografts mobilized with plerixafor (stem/progenitor cells, T/B/ (Natural killer) NK-cells), donation|Incidence of Chronic Graft-versus-host Disease (GVHD), Incidence of chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in recipients after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor, Day 365|Secondary Graft Failure After Transplantation of Hematopoietic Cells Mobilized With Plerixafor, Incidence of secondary graft failure in recipients after transplantation of hematopoietic cells mobilized with plerixafor. This outcome measure is descriptive., Day 365|CD34+ Cell Count of Allografts, CD34+ cell count of allografts mobilized with plerixafor, donation
The primary objective is to determine the proportion of donors whose cells can be successfully mobilized and collected with a sufficient CD34+ cell dose using plerixafor as the mobilizing agent, using an intention-to-treat analysis. Donor mobilization following plerixafor will be considered successful if ≥ 2.0x10e6 CD34+ cells/kg recipient weight are collected in no more than two leukapheresis collections.

All donors receiving plerixafor will be included in the analysis of the primary objective based on the intention-to-treat principle.Recipients will be classified into one of the two strata, myeloablative or reduced intensity, according to his/her conditioning regimen. The target enrollment is 64 donor/recipient pairs, 32 pairs per stratum.