EF5 to Evaluate Tumor Hypoxia in Patients With High-Grade Soft Tissue Sarcoma or Mouth Cancer
This laboratory study is using EF5 to evaluate tumor hypoxia in patients with high-grade soft tissue sarcoma or mouth cancer. Using the drug EF5 to measure the oxygen level in tumor cells may help in planning cancer treatment
Stage I Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage II Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity
DRUG: EF5|OTHER: diagnostic laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Time to locoregional recurrence in HNSCC patients, Time from study entry (EF5 administration) to locoregional recurrence, assessed up to 6 years|Time to distant metastasis in STS patients, Time from study entry (EF5 administration) to distant metastasis, assessed up to 6 years|How rapidly the STS recurred based on the original grade, time to recurrence and the degree of hypoxia in recurrent STS patients, Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine biologically-relevant hypoxia by imaging and cellular analysis of EF5 binding in patients with high-grade soft tissue sarcoma of the trunk or extremity or squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity.

II. Determine the spatial relationships between EF5 binding and various tumor tissue markers, pathological processes, and serum plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in these patients.

III. Correlate EF5 binding with Eppendorf electrode measurement and patient-related factors in these patients.

IV. Determine the adjusted and unadjusted associations between clinical outcome and optimal measures of EF5 binding, patient/tumor characteristics, and biological markers in these patients.

OUTLINE:

Approximately 24-48 hours prior to surgical resection or biopsy, patients receive EF5 IV over no more than 2½ hours. Tissue samples are analyzed by immunohistochemistry for EF5 binding. Blood samples are analyzed for genetic markers and cytokines associated with hypoxia and EF5 concentration.