Providing Patient Information and CT Examination Results
Chest pain is a common cause of visits in the Emergency Room and General Practice, and is most commonly connected as a symptom of coronary disease, as for instance angina pectoris and acute myocardial infarct. Approximately 75-80% of these patients are not diagnosed with coronary disease or other cardiac findings. However, many of these patients still report chest pain and worries about cardiac disease.

This study is based on patients that are referred to a CT-examination of the coronary arteries on the background of chest pain, where the CT-examination shows normal coronary arteries.

The study aims to evaluate whether providing an intervention to this group of patients has an effect on patient satisfaction, patient's worry of cardiac disease and incidence of chest pain.

The intervention group will be compared with a similar group going through the same CT-examination, but is receiving the examination result from their regular general practitioner (RGP), which is considered standard care.

The hypothesis is that patients with chest pain with no coronary findings receiving extended information before getting the normal examination results experience a better patient satisfaction than those receiving the examination result from their RGP.
Chest Pain|Nonmalignant Condition
OTHER: Extended information
Patient satisfaction: Seattle Angina Questionnaire, Our primary outcome is to examine whether patients with chest pain with normal coronary arteries experience greater satisfaction with their treatment if they receive extended information and the examination results immediately after the CT examination than those who receive the examination result from their RGP.

This is measured with 2 single items in Seattle Angina Questionnaire regarding satisfaction with treatment. Values range from 1-5, 1 is the lowest level of satisfaction, and 5 is the highest level of satisfaction. Greater satisfaction with treatment will be defined by a higher score at follow-up after 1 month.

In addition, there is a separate question of patients' trust in the CT examination measured with a VAS-scale , ranging from 1-10, 1 represents lowest possible degree of trust, and 10 represents highest possible degree of trust. Greater trust in the CT-examination is defined by higher scores at follow-up after 1 month., 1 month
Worry of having heart disease, To examine if patients report less worry of having a heart attack or sudden death after having a CT examination of the heart's arteries, when receiving extended information and the normal examination result immediately after the CT examination.

This is measured with a single item in Seattle Angina Questionnaire regarding worry of having heart attack or die suddenly. Values range from 1-5, 1 represents "worry all the time" and 5 represents "never worry". Less worry of having a heart attack or die suddenly will be defined by higher scores at follow-up after 1, 6 and 12 months., 1 month, 6 months, 12 months|Incidence of chest pain, To examine if patients with chest pain with normal coronary arteries report less chest pain and/or less use of health care services if they receive extended information and the examination results immediately after the CT examination compared to those who receive the examination result from their RGP.

This is measured with 2 single items in Seattle Angina Questionnaire. One item regards limitations in everyday activities because of chest pain. Values range from 1-5, 1 represents lowest level, and 5 represents highest level of function. The second item is about incidence of chest pain the last week. Values range from 1-5, 1 represents high incidence of chest pain and 5 represents no chest pain. Less chest pain is associated with higher scores at all times of follow up, compared to baseline.

In addition, clinical data regarding participants use of primary and secondary health care the last 4 weeks is collected at all times of follow-up and is compared to baseline data., 1 month, 6 months, 12 months|Patient satisfaction: Seattle Angina Questionnaire, To examine whether patients with chest pain with normal coronary arteries experience greater satisfaction with their treatment if they receive extended information and the examination results immediately after the CT examination than those who receive the examination result from their RGP.

This is measured with 2 single items in Seattle Angina Questionnaire regarding satisfaction with treatment. Values range from 1-5, 1 is the lowest level of satisfaction, and 5 is the highest level of satisfaction. Greater satisfaction with treatment will be defined by a higher score at follow-up after 6 and 12 months., 6 months, 12 months
This study is a randomized controlled study. Eligible patients going through a CT-examination of the heart's coronary arteries, Coronary CT Angiogram (CCTA) will after an informed consent be randomized into two groups, either the intervention group or standard care.

The intervention consists of extended information regarding the benefits of doing a CCTA, thereby emphasising the specificity and accuracy of the CCTA's ability to exclude coronary disease. After this, there will be given an opportunity of a visual go-through and explanation of CT-images. Then they will be informed of the examination result that shows normal coronary arteries.

Follow up is planned after one month, six months and twelve months, where the participants receive the same questionnaire as at baseline to fill out and return. The questionnaire consists of Seattle Angina Questionnaire and RAND-12, in addition to social demographic and clinical data, such as sex, height, weight and current medication.