Safety and Efficacy of RX-af01 Combined With PD-1 Antibody
This phase I trial evaluates the effects of RX-af01 in combination with toripalimab (PD-1 antibody), in treating patients with refractory advanced solid tumors, including melanoma, nasopharyngeal squamous carcinoma, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, et al. RX-af01 is a kind of anti-tumor intestinal bacteria developed by our research group. Its main components are symbiotic bacteria from human intestine - Alisipes finegoldii (A. finegoldii.), which is a Gram negative anaerobic bacteria. Our previous research shows that A finegoldii. can significantly enhance the anti-tumor activity of PD-1 antibody in multiple mouse tumor models. Mechanism research shows that A finegoldii. can increase the infiltration of CD4 and CD8 positive immune cells in the tumor microenvironment, and enhances the anti-tumor activity of immune cells. The primary aim of this study is to explore the efficacy and safety of RX-af01 combined with PD-1 antibody in refractory advanced solid tumors.
Solid Tumor|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor|Intestinal Flora
DRUG: RX-af01|DRUG: Mixed bacteria|DRUG: High dose RX-af01
Objective response rate, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, including complete response (CR) and partial response (PR)., Up to 1 year
Overall survival (OS), From the time of enrollment to the date of death or last followup., Up to 1 year|Progression free survival (PFS), From the time of enrollment to the date of disease progression or death or last followup., Up to 1 year|Duration of response (DoR), The time from the first assessment of CR or PR to the first assessment of PD or death (caused by any reason), Up to 1 year|Change of tumor microenvironment, Infiltration of immune cells, including CD8+T cell, Treg cell et al., Up to 1 year|Comparison of the Shannon index (a measure of microbial diversity), Using translational methods, will compute the Shannon index at baseline for a comparison of microbial diversity., Up to 1 year
This is a phase Ib study to evaluate the effects of RX-af01 in combination with toripalimab (PD-1 antibody), in treating patients with refractory advanced solid tumors, including melanoma, nasopharyngeal squamous carcinoma, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, gastric adenocarcinoma, renal cell carcinoma, et al. This study will include 3 chorts. Cohort 1 uses the regular dose of RX-af01. Cohort 2 uses a high dose of RX-af01 which is 5 times of the regular dose of RX-af01. Cohort 3 uses a mixed bacteria including RX-af01, Bifidobacterium longum RX02 and Ligilactobacillus salivarius RX02.

Primary endpoint:

To determine the safety and efficacy of bacterial strain RX-af01 in combination with toripalimab in refractory advanced solid tumors.

Secondary endpoint:

1. Progression free survival (PFS)
2. Overall survival (OS)
3. Duration of response (DOR)
4. Tumor microenvironment
5. Changes in flora species/abundance