Carbon Ion RT for Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This is an open-label randomized trial. Subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive carbon ion radiotherapy versus standard care for locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Subjects who receive carbon ion radiotherapy may receive additional chemotherapy afterwards, at the discretion of the treating physicians. Subjects on the control arm are also expected to receive chemotherapy, using a regimen selected by the treating physicians. Subjects on the control arm will not receive upfront radiotherapy but may receive radiotherapy (not carbon ion radiotherapy) if disease progression occurs.
Pancreatic Cancer
RADIATION: carbon ion RT|DRUG: Chemotherapy drug
Overall survival duration, The length of time from randomization of treatment for cancer, that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive., The length of time from randomization until death from any cause for up to 24 months
Progression-free survival duration, The length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse., he length of time from study registration until disease progression at any site or death from any cause, up to 24 months|Local disease progression scored using RECIST 1.1 criteria, A set of published rules that define when tumors in cancer patients improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progress") during treatment, Up to 24 months|Adverse events as defined by CTCAE v5.0, A set of criteria for the standardized classification of adverse effects of drugs used in cancer therapy., Up to 24 months|Quality-of-life, measured using the EORTC (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer) QLQ-C30 questionnaire, Questionnaire developed to measure the quality of life of cancer patients. Composite scores range from 0 to 100, with higher scores being more favorable., up to 24 months
This is an open-label randomized trial. Subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive carbon ion radiotherapy versus standard care for locally advanced pancreatic cancer. Subjects who receive carbon ion radiotherapy may receive additional chemotherapy afterwards, at the discretion of the treating physicians. Subjects on the control arm are also expected to receive chemotherapy, using a regimen selected by the treating physicians. Subjects on the control arm will not receive upfront radiotherapy but may receive radiotherapy (not carbon ion radiotherapy) if disease progression occurs.