The Effect of Mentholyptus Drops on the Palatability of PEG-Electrolyte Solution
The investigators aim is to study the efficacy of mentholyptus drops in improving the palatability of PEG-electrolyte solution used in bowel cleansing for colonoscopy. The study is a randomized controlled trial which will include patients undergoing elective colonoscopy at the American University of Beirut Medical Center. Patients will be randomized into one of two study arms using a computer generated randomization list. Patients assigned to the intervention arm will be asked to have candy (Halls®) during the whole 2 hours period while drinking the PEG solution unlike the control arm patients who will only receive the PEG solution. All patients will then be evaluated for the tolerability of the preparation while taking into account the palatability of the solution as main outcome and the remaining volume of the PEG solution and side effects as secondary outcomes.
Colon Cancer
OTHER: PEG solution (Fortrans®) and Mentholyptus Drops (Halls®)|OTHER: PEG solution (Fortrans®)
measurement of Palatability of the PEG-electrolyte solution, patients will be asked to assess the palatability of the colon preparation solution (Fortrans®) by giving it a score on a scale from 1 to 5 with 1 being disgusting and 5 being tasty after drinking the whole solution and immediately prior to the colonoscopy, 1.5 hours after drinking the solution
volume remaining of the colon preparation solution, Patients will be asked to bring with them to the endoscopy suit the volume remaining, if any, of the colon preparation solution that they were not able to drink. The volume remaining will be measured by the research fellow using a graduated cylinder., 1.5 hours after drinking the solution|Side effects, number of patients who experienced nausea, vomiting, bloating, abdominal cramps or headaches while drinking the solution., 1.5 hours after drinking the solution
The investigators aim is to study the efficacy of mentholyptus drops in improving the palatability of PEG-electrolyte solution used in bowel cleansing for colonoscopy. The study is a randomized controlled trial which will include patients undergoing elective colonoscopy at the American University of Beirut Medical Center. Patients will be randomized into one of two study arms using a computer generated randomization list. Patients assigned to the intervention arm will be asked to have candy (Halls®) during the whole 2 hours period while drinking the PEG solution unlike the control arm patients who will only receive the PEG solution. All patients will then be evaluated for the tolerability of the preparation while taking into account the palatability of the solution as main outcome and the remaining volume of the PEG solution and side effects as secondary outcomes.