Iloprost in Preventing Lung Cancer in Former Smokers
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of iloprost compared with a placebo in preventing lung cancer in former smokers. Chemoprevention is the use of drugs to keep cancer from forming or coming back. Inhaled iloprost may help prevent lung cancer from forming in patients who used to smoke and who have been found to have abnormal cells in their mucus.
Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: Iloprost|OTHER: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of clinical toxicity, Will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation \[SD\], median, max, min and range) will be provided for toxicity. Approximate 95% confidence intervals will be used to assess the difference between treatment groups., Up to 90 days|Treatment compliance, measured as the fraction of prescribed inhalations actually administered, Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, median, max, min and range) will be provided for compliance. Approximate 95% confidence intervals will be used to assess the difference between treatment groups., Up to 60 days
Response of airway histology, Will provide descriptive statistics for the effect on endobronchial histology, with the primary parameter being worst histology at matched sites; additional outcomes will be average histology, dysplasia index and response, as described., Up to 5 years|Serum protein profiling, Will provide descriptive statistics for the effect on serum proteins as quantitated by aptamer based analysis., Up to 60 days|Endobronchial brushing gene expression, Will provide descriptive statistics for the effect on endobronchial brushing gene expression, focusing on prostacyclin-targeted pathways., Up to 60 days|Gene expression of dysplastic lesions, Will provide descriptive statistics., Up to 60 days|Improvement in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), Will provide descriptive statistics for the improvement in COPD as measured by arterial blood gas (improved ventilation perfusion matching), pulmonary function testing, 6-minute walk distance, and quality of life (St. George's respiratory questionnaire, COPD assessment test)., Up to 60 days|Whether the in vitro response of cultured airway epithelial progenitor cells to iloprost is a predictor of in vivo response in study subjects, Bronchial biopsies will be taken from an area suspicious for dysplasia and an area that appears normal. These will be cultured as described and transferred to an air liquid interface culture in which dysplasia is recapitulated. Cultures will be treated with either vehicle or iloprost and assessed for both self-renewal and differentiation to ciliated and secretory cells., Up to 60 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity of inhalational iloprost administered to patients daily for 2 months, given four times a day (QID).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the compliance QID dosing regimens. II. To evaluate the effect on endobronchial histology. III. To evaluate the effect on expectorated sputum cytology by both standard cytologic analysis and an automated three-dimensional morphologic analysis.

IV. To evaluate the effect on endobronchial brushing and biopsy gene expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma), glutathione S-transferase mu (GSTmu), carboxylesterase 1 (Ces1), Fos-related antigen 1 (FosL1), cytochrome p4502e1, stearoyl coA desaturase 1, tumor necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily member 9, transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta), Jun and a 46 gene panel associated with dysplasia persistence, using Affymetrix arrays.

V. To evaluate the improvement in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as measured by arterial blood gas (ABG) (improved ventilation perfusion matching), pulmonary function testing, 6-minute walk distance, quality of life (St. George's respiratory questionnaire, COPD assessment test \[CAT\]).

VI. To evaluate whether the in vitro response of cultured airway epithelial progenitor cells to iloprost is a predictor of in vivo response in study subjects.

OUTLINE: Patients are enrolled to Cohort A to completion prior to initiation of Cohort B.

COHORT A: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive iloprost via inhalation using a nebulizer QID for 60 days.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo via inhalation using a nebulizer QID for 60 days.

COHORT B: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms. COHORT B DISCONTINUED AS OF 03/26/2019.

ARM III: Patients receive iloprost via inhalation using a nebulizer BID for 60 days.

ARM IV: Patients receive placebo via inhalation using a nebulizer BID for 60 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 days and then annually for up to 5 years.