Developing and Validating Fertilit-e
The main purpose of this project is to adapt and validate an eHealth fertility preservation decision-making support tool (Fertilit-e) for young adults with cancer.
Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Evaluation of Fertilit-e Alpha - Usability (Number of Participants), To evaluate Fertilit-e alpha, we will examine its usability through a series of think aloud interviews. Qualitative analysis will provide an integrative summary and identification of key points, potential themes, and areas of further exploration., 6 months|Evaluation of Fertilit-e Alpha- Usability (System Usability Scale), To evaluate Fertilit-e alpha, we will examine its usability through the System Usability Scale, a simple, ten-item attitude Likert scale (1 - strongly disagree to 5 strongly agree) giving a global view of subjective assessments of usability. The score range is 0 to 100. Higher scores are better and scores above 68 are considered above average., 6 months
Evaluation of Fertilit-e Alpha- Comprehensibility, To evaluate Fertilit-e alpha, we will examine its comprehensibility and design through a series of think aloud interviews. Qualitative analysis will provide an integrative summary and identification of key points, potential themes, and areas of further exploration., 6 months
The overarching goal is to utilize innovations in eHealth technology to address fertility preservation knowledge deficits and decision-making options for young adults with cancer ages 18-39 years of age. Every year, approximately 70,000 young adults (ages 18-39) are diagnosed with cancer, which can significantly affect their health-related quality of life in multiple areas, including the potential for infertility or other reproductive challenges. Despite this, very few young adults diagnosed with cancer are actually provided fertility preservation information let alone effective strategies or tools for how to best navigate their fertility preservation options. It is critical to provide decision-making information and support about infertility risk and existing interventions to maintain reproductive potential in a delivery mode that is most congruent with this population's health communication style, such as eHealth applications.

The goal is to adapt and optimize fertility preservation content in a tailored mHealth tool for fertility preservation decision-making. More specifically, the team will adapt fertility-preservation content for tailored, rapid, and clear dissemination of information in an engaging, cross-platform, patient-friendly mHealth format. The study team will alpha-test this tool with an ethnically diverse sample of cross-cultural end users to collect qualitative data and evaluate usability and comprehensibility to refine content and design. No formal hypothesis testing will be done.