Study of Pasireotide Long Acting Release (LAR) in Patients With Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (NETs)
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if the study drug, Pasireotide LAR can shrink or slow the growth of Metastatic Neuroendocrine Carcinomas. The safety of this drug will also be studied. The patient's physical state, changes in the size of the tumor, and laboratory findings taken while on-study will help us decide if Pasireotide LAR is safe and effective.
Neuroendocrine Tumors|Carcinoid Tumors
DRUG: Pasireotide Long Acting Release (LAR)
Progression-free Survival (PFS) at One Year, PFS: Defined as the time from the date of first study treatment to the date of the first documented disease progression, by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.0) guidelines, or death due to any cause. Progressive Disease (PD): at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 12 months
Overall Radiographic Response Rate (ORR), Complete response (CR): complete disappearance of all target lesions, confirmed by repeat assessments at no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response are first met. Partial response (PR): at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter. This must be confirmed by repeat assessment at no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response are first met. Stable Disease (SD): neither sufficient decrease to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter since the treatment started., Up to 48 months|Adverse Events Possibly Related to Study Treatment, Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) will be evaluated continuously throughout the study. Safety and tolerability will be assessed according to the NIH/NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0)., Up to 48 months
This is a multi-institutional, prospective phase II open-label trial.

The investigational drug used in this study is pasireotide LAR 60 mg. Pasireotide will be administered as an intramuscular injection at the beginning of every cycle which is defined as 28 days (+/- 3 days). Study treatment should begin within 14 days following enrollment into the study and continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent. Safety and efficacy will be assessed throughout the treatment period.