Effectiveness of Physical Therapy on Axillary Web Syndrome After Breast Cancer Surgery
Objective: To determine the effectiveness of physical therapy on the axillary web syndrome in improving pain, reducing swelling and increasing mobility of the shoulder. Design: randomized single-blinded controlled trial. Follow-up: five physical therapy assessments: pre-intervention; post-intervention, 3 months post-intervention, 6 months post-intervention. Participants: Eighty consecutive women diagnosed with axillary web syndrome after undergoing unilateral breast cancer surgery with ALND or SLND at the Prıíncipe de Asturias Hospital in Alcalà de Henares, Madrid (Spain). Randomization: women will be randomly assigned to two groups by EpiData 3.1 software. Interventions: Physical Therapy group: Physical Therapy composed of manual lymph-drainage technique in axilla, and proximal ipsilateral arm, specific thumb manual lymph-drainage on the taut cords to make them gradually more flexible, in conjunction with progressive active and action-assisted arm exercises; Control group: standard progressive active and action-assisted arm exercises. 9 physical therapy sessions.
Axillary Web Syndrome
OTHER: Physical Therapy protocol|OTHER: Control
Change from baseline in Subjective pain at one month (post-intervention); and 3 and 6 months post-intervention, Visual Analogue Scale, Pre-intervention (baseline); Post-intervention (one month from baseline); and 3 and 6 months post-intervention
Change from baseline in Range of shoulder motion at one month (post-intervention); and 3 and 6 months post-intervention, Inclinometer, Pre-intervention (baseline); Post-intervention (one month from baseline); and 3 and 6 months post-intervention
Change from baseline in QoL related to shoulder pain at one month (post-intervention); and 3 and 6 months post-intervention, Oxford Shoulder Score, Pre-intervention (baseline); Post-intervention (one month from baseline); and 3 and 6 months post-intervention
Objective: To determine the effectiveness of physical therapy on the axillary web syndrome in improving pain, reducing swelling and increasing mobility of the shoulder. Design: randomized single-blinded controlled trial. Follow-up: five physical therapy assessments: pre-intervention; post-intervention, 3 months post-intervention, 6 months post-intervention. Participants: Eighty consecutive women diagnosed with axillary web syndrome after undergoing unilateral breast cancer surgery with ALND or SLND at the Prıíncipe de Asturias Hospital in Alcalà de Henares, Madrid (Spain). Randomization: women will be randomly assigned to two groups by EpiData 3.1 software. Interventions: Physical Therapy group: Physical Therapy composed of manual lymph-drainage technique in axilla, and proximal ipsilateral arm, specific thumb manual lymph-drainage on the taut cords to make them gradually more flexible, in conjunction with progressive active and action-assisted arm exercises; Control group: standard progressive active and action-assisted arm exercises. 9 physical therapy sessions.