Adjuvant Sacituzumab Govitecan and Nivolumab in Muscle-Invasive Urothelial Carcinoma At High-Risk Recurrence
This is a phase 2 study, single-arm study of adjuvant combination therapy with Sacituzumab Govitecan and Nivolumab in patients with muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder, ureter, or upper tract, who are high risk for cancer recurrence post curative-intent surgery based on surgical pathology.
Urothelial Carcinoma|Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Sacituzumab Govitecan (SG)|DRUG: Nivolumab
Primary Objective, To determine investigator-assessed disease-free survival (DFS) at 6 months., 6 months after last patient enrollment
Secondary (1), To determine investigator-assessed DFS (i.e. time from Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) of study treatment to first occurrence of a DFS event), defined as any of the following:

1. Local (pelvic) recurrence of UC (including regional lymph nodes)
2. Urinary tract recurrence of UC (including all pathological stages and grades)
3. Distant metastasis of UC
4. Death from any cause, Time from Cycle1 Day 1 of study treatment to first occurrence of a disease free survival event, up to 5 years.|Secondary (2), To determine investigator-assessed distant metastasis-free survival (MFS) (i.e. time from Cycle 1 Day 1 of study treatment to diagnosis of distant metastases or death from any cause)., Time from Cycle 1 Day 1 of study treatment to diagnosis of distant metastases or death from any cause, up to 5 years.|Secondary (3), To determine overall survival (OS) (i.e. time from Cycle 1 Day 1 of study treatment to death of any cause)., Time from C1D1 of study treatment to death of any cause, up to 5 years.|Secondary (4), To determine incidence of Grade 3 or higher AEs., Up to 5 years|Secondary (5), To determine rate of ctDNA clearance in ctDNA positive patients (i.e. conversion from positive ctDNA to negative at any point from baseline assessment)., Conversion from positive ctDNA to negative at any point from baseline assessment, up to 5 years.|Secondary (6), To perform exploratory biomarker analysis., Up to 5 years
This is a phase 2 study, single-arm study of adjuvant combination therapy with Sacituzumab Govitecan and Nivolumab in patients with muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder, ureter, or upper tract, who are high risk for cancer recurrence post curative-intent surgery based on surgical pathology.