Combination Chemotherapy and Rituximab in Treating Young Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma or Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This phase II trial is studying how well rituximab together with ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide works in treating young patients with recurrent or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Chemotherapy drugs, such as ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide, work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Combining ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide with rituximab may kill more cancer cells.
B-cell Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Childhood Burkitt Lymphoma|Childhood Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Childhood Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|L3 Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Small Noncleaved Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: ifosfamide|DRUG: etoposide|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: carboplatin|BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: methotrexate|DRUG: cytarabine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response rate determined by physical exam and appropriate imaging studies, Response rates and confidence intervals will be constructed according to the method of Chang and O'Brien., Up to 3 years|Relapse-free survival rate, Estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years|Toxicity as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Up to 3 years
CD34 cells mobilization by flow cytometry, At the completion of 2 courses of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response of pediatric patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated with ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide combined with rituximab.

II. Determine the relapse-free survival rate of patients treated with this regimen.

III. Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients, specifically the frequency of therapy delays between courses due to prolonged grade IV hematologic toxicity.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether this regimen plus filgrastim (G-CSF) will result in mobilization of greater than 2 X 10\^6/kg peripheral blood stem cells (CD34+ cells, PBSC) in at least 80% of patients for whom peripheral stem cell collection is performed.

II. Determine the time course of engraftment for patients who undergo peripheral stem cell transplantation after collection of stem cells using this mobilization regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified by disease (B-cell large cell lymphoma or atypical precursor B-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma vs small non-cleaved cell lymphoma or B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia).

Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 2 hours and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 3-5, rituximab IV on days 1 and 3, and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 3. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously once daily beginning on day 6 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients also receive intrathecal (IT) chemotherapy comprising methotrexate and cytarabine. Patients with B-cell large cell lymphoma and negative CSF cytology receive IT chemotherapy on day 3 of the first course only. Patients with small non-cleaved cell lymphoma or B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia and negative CSF cytology receive IT chemotherapy on day 3. All patients with positive CSF cytology receive IT chemotherapy on days 3, 10, and 17 of the first and second courses. Treatment repeats every 23 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed for survival.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 42-82 patients (21-41 per disease stratum) will be accrued for this study within 2-4 years.