Study of Preladenant (MK-3814) Alone and With Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors (MK-3814A-062)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of preladenant (MK-3814A) alone and in combination with pembrolizumab (MK-3475) (pembro) in participants with advanced solid tumors that have not responded to prior therapy. This study will be done in 2 parts. Part 1 will identify and confirm the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of preladenant when given alone or in combination with pembrolizumab. Part 2 of the study will determine the safety and efficacy of preladenant in combination with pembrolizumab at the RP2D in participants with select solid tumors .
Neoplasm
DRUG: preladenant|BIOLOGICAL: pembrolizumab
Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLTs were assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4. A DLT was defined as any of the following events: Grade (Gr) 4 non-hematologic toxicity (not laboratory); Gr 4 hematologic toxicity lasting ≥7 days; Gr 4 thrombocytopenia of any duration; Gr 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding; Gr 3 non-hematologic toxicity (not laboratory) lasting \>3 days despite optimal supportive care; Gr 3 or Gr 4 non-hematologic laboratory value requiring treatment, hospitalization, or persisting for \>72 hours; alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase(AST) \>3X upper limit of normal (ULN) WITH total bilirubin \>2X ULN with no elevation in alkaline phosphatase (\<2X ULN); Febrile neutropenia Gr 3 or 4; discontinuation during Cycle 1 or a \>2 week delay in initiating Cycle 2 due to treatment-related toxicity; Missing \>25% of preladenant doses as a result of adverse events during Cycle 1; or Gr 5 toxicity., Cycle 1 (up to 21 days)|Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product/protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product/protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a preexisting condition temporally associated with the use of the product was also an AE. The number of participants who experienced at least one AE is presented., Up tp approximately 8 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product/protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product/protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a preexisting condition temporally associated with the use of the product was also an AE. The number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE is presented., Up to approximately 8 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), ORR was defined as the percentage of the participants in the analysis population who had a Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 per investigator review. The ORR per RECIST 1.1 for participants is presented., Up to approximately 8 months
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of preladenant (MK-3814A) alone and in combination with pembrolizumab (MK-3475) (pembro) in participants with advanced solid tumors that have not responded to prior therapy. This study will be done in 2 parts. Part 1 will identify and confirm the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of preladenant when given alone or in combination with pembrolizumab. Part 2 of the study will determine the safety and efficacy of preladenant in combination with pembrolizumab at the RP2D in participants with select solid tumors .