IGNITE Firefighters' Health
Investigators hope to learn about potential dietary intervention strategies (specifically a whole-food, plant-based diet) that may help lower cancer markers in firefighters.
Cancer|Inflammation|Microbiome|Immune Function
BEHAVIORAL: Whole Foods Plant-Based Diet|BEHAVIORAL: Usual Firehouse Diet
Difference in IL-6, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in IL-6 between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks
Difference in Glyc a, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Glyc a between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in C-Reactive Protein (CRP), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in C-Reactive Protein (CRP) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Interleukin-10 (L-10), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Interleukin-10 (IL-10) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Cytokines and Inflammatory Proteins, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in a panel of cytokines and inflammatory proteins using the NUcleic acid Linked Immuno-Sandwich Assay (NULISA™) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Calprotectin, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Calprotectin between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OH-dG) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Lipid Peroxidation, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Lipid Peroxidation between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups, using the Thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance (TBARS) assay., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Protein Carbonyl (protein oxidation), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Protein Carbonyl (a measure of protein oxidation) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups, using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA)., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Fasting Glucose, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Fasting Glucose between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Fasting Insulin, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Fasting Insulin between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Low-Density-Lipoprotein Cholesterol (LDL), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Low-Density-Lipoprotein Cholesterol (LDL) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in High-Density-Lipoprotein Cholesterol (HDL), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in High-Density-Lipoprotein Cholesterol (HDL) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Triglycerides (TRGs), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Triglycerides (TRGs) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Telomeres, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Telomeres between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Epigenetic Age, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Epigenetic Age between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups, assessed by Epigenetic Clocks., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Gut Microbiome Composition, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Gut Microbiome Composition between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups, assessed by Metagenomic Sequencing., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in Metabolomic Profiles, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in Gut Microbiome Composition between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups, assessed by assessed by Targeted and Untargeted Metabolomics, Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE) between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in body composition, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in body composition between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups, as assessed by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry scan (DEXA) scans., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in weight, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in weight between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in systolic blood pressure, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in systolic blood pressure between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks|Difference in diastolic blood pressure, Difference in the 8-week change from baseline in diastolic blood pressure between the whole-food plant-based vs. usual diet groups., Baseline and 8 weeks
The purpose of the San Francisco (SF) Firefighter's Diet Study is to determine if a diet low in processed foods, mostly plant-based, with added fermented foods, can lower the risk of cancer in firefighters. We will assess this by randomly assigning SF firefighters to either a whole-food, plant-based diet or their usual firehouse meals. Participants will be followed for 12 weeks.