Phase 2a Desipramine in Small Cell Lung Cancer and Other High-Grade Neuroendocrine Tumors
Intrapatient dose escalation study of desipramine in subjects with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and other high-grade neuroendocrine tumors.
Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC)|Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: Desipramine HCL
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) was assessed as the number of patients who achieve either a partial (PR) or complete response (CR) measured by CT scans and Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) criteria, divided by the total number of patients treated on the study. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions, all non-target lesions, and no new lesion. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, no progression in non-target lesion, and no new lesion., 6 weeks
Desipramine Maximum Dose, Assessed as the median per patient maximum dose (MD) using intra-patient dose escalation, and reported as the highest dose of desipramine administered continuously for 1 week or greater., Up to 6 weeks|Median Serum Desipramine Levels During Treatment, Median serum desipramine levels during treatment is reported as the median of the maximum steady state serum concentration observed in all patients.

Therapeutic concentration of desipramine is 100 to 300 ng/mL, and toxic concentration is \> 300 ng/mL., Up to 6 weeks|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Median, Median PFS was defined as the time from randomization to disease progression (or death if the patient died before progression) calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5 years from enrollment to radiographic progression or drug discontinuation|Median Overall Survival (OS), Median overall survival was defined as time from enrollment to death from any cause calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From start of enrollment until death, no limit
Participants will start desipramine by mouth nightly (QHS) for 6 weeks, with weekly dose escalation. Starting dose will be 25 to 75 mg. The desipramine dose will be escalated until the maximum dose of 450 mg is reached or a maximum safe dose per subject is established.

Dose level may be adjusted (decreased) based on cardiac or general adverse effects. desipramine level will be tapered if the subject experience disease progression, unless physician judges immediate suspension is in the subjects best interest.

Assessments will be conducted every 28 days, and will include ECGs, physicians and blood samples.

One partial and/or complete response will be sufficient to consider a larger clinical trial.