Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This pilot clinical trial studies stereotactic body radiation therapy in treating patients with liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Stereotactic radiation therapy may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Localized Non-Resectable Adult Liver Carcinoma|Recurrent Adult Liver Carcinoma
RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Severe Treatment-related Toxicity, The percentage of patients who have severe treatment-related toxicity will be computed, along with exact 95% confidence intervals. Severe toxicity will be defined as grade 4 or 5 hepatic toxicity, thrombocytopenia, or gastrointestinal toxicity, graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, Within 3 months of SBRT
Cancer Specific Survival (CSS), Cancer Specific Survival (CSS) was assessed in patients who were diagnosed with HCC and treated with liver SBRT as the percentage of patients with Cause-Specific Death from HCC. Patients alive at the end of the follow-up period were censored. Competing risk analysis was performed., Time from study entry to death from Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) progression, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival, estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, reflected the percentage of patients who were were diagnosed with HCC and started SBRT treatment and were still alive at the conclusion of the study., Time from study entry to death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Time to Local Progression (TTLP) of Treated Lesions, Time to Local progression (TTLP) of treated lesions in HCC patients after liver SBRT treatment was evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST). For patients who died from the study disease without progression of the radiated lesion, time to local progression was censored at the date of death. For patients not known to have died as of the data cut-off date, and who did not have locally progressive disease, time to local progression was censored at the last progression-free disease assessment., From date of first treatment dose to the first date of objective local progressive disease as defined by RECIST criteria, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate feasibility and safety of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) of the liver for treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate radiographic local response, local control and time to local progression (TTLP) of treated lesions in HCC patients after liver SBRT.

II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) and cancer specific survival (CSS) in HCC patients treated with liver SBRT.

III. To evaluate explanted irradiated liver tissue (for patients who proceed to liver transplantation) to determine extent of residual tumor and extent of radiation effects within and around the irradiated field.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo SBRT every other day over 2 weeks (5 fractions total) in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.