Radical Retropubic Prostatectomy Versus Conventional External Beam Radiotherapy for Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the two most established primary treatments for patients with clinically localized prostate cancer: radical retropubic prostatectomy, and external-beam radiotherapy. The primary aim is assessing biochemical disease-free survival, overall survival, and prostate cancer-specific survival. As secondary objectives quality of Life impact of treatments' side effects will be also assessed.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Radical retropubic prostatectomy|RADIATION: External beam radiotherapy
Biochemical disease-free survival, Number of participants who are free of biochemical relapse after a specified duration of time. Biochemical recurrence is measured by PSA levels. The definition of biochemical recurrence was based on a review of the literature and consideration of clinical practice in the year 1997. Biochemical recurrence among patients who underwent radical prostatectomy (RP) was defined as a measurable serum PSA concentration 0.2 ng/ml or greater. The American Society for Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO) criteria were used to define progression after radiation therapy. The ASTRO consensus definition specifies progression as 3 consecutive increases in serum PSA documented at intervals of 6 or more months., up to 12 months
•Perceived general health measured by the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form (SF-36)., The Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form (SF-36) version 2 contains 36 items covering eight dimensions: physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health problems, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning, role limitations due to emotional problems and mental health. For each dimension, a score ranges from 0-100 (higher score indicate better health).Physical and mental component summaries are constructed, using recommended scoring algorithms. Summary scores are standardized to have a mean of 50 and standard deviation of 10 in the general population., 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after treatment.|•Cancer specific Quality of Life measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General and Prostate specific - (FACT-G and FACT-P, respectively)., The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G) version 4.0 was designed to measure Quality of Life in cancer patients. It consists of 27 items in 4 dimensions measuring Physical, Social/familial, Emotional, and Functional well-being. The Prostate module (FACT-P) is specific for patients with prostate cancer and contains 12 questions about urinary symptoms, and bowel and sexual function. Scores range from 0 to 108 on the FACT-G, and from 0 to 48 on the FACT-P, with 0 representing perfect health., 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after treatment.|•Urinary symptoms measured by the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS)., The International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) was developed to assess the severity of lower urinary tract symptoms associated to Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia and has also been applied to other conditions that cause lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS). The IPSS consists of a total of seven questions that deal with voiding symptoms (incomplete empty, intermittency, weak stream and straining to void) and storage symptoms (frequency, urgency and nocturia) and an additional question to measure quality of life. The score ranges from 0 to 35, with lower scores denoting a better health state., 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after treatment.|•Sexual symptoms measured by the International Index of Erectile Function (IIES)., The International Index of Erectile Function (IIES) is a 15-item, self-administered questionnaire scale for the assessment of erectile function. Scores range from 5 to 75, with higher scores denoting a better sexual function., 1, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after treatment.|Overall survival., Number of participants who are alive after a specified duration of time., 5, 7 and 10 years after treatment and every 5 years thereafter.|Prostate cancer-specific survival, Number of participants who are not dead due to prostate cancer after a specified duration of time, 3, 5, and 10 years after treatment and then every 5 years thereafter
Eligible patients had clinically localized (clinical TNM classification T1 or T2), biopsy-proven adenocarcinoma of the prostate and were randomly treated with RRP or EBRT. Exclusion criteria included prior treatment for prostate cancer, the presence of metastatic disease on imaging studies, the receipt of neoadjuvant androgen ablation before registration, and an inability to read or understand Italian language. The institutional review boards of every participating centre approved the study design. Every patient enrolled signed an informed-consent form approved by the institutional review boards. Clinical information collected from the medical record included pre-treatment serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level, clinical T classification, and biopsy Gleason score. Follow-up assessments were completed before treatment and every 3 months after treatment. Subjects who sought primary treatment elsewhere or did not return follow-up questionnaires beyond the initial assessment were excluded from this analysis.