Evaluation of Alternative Transfusion Triggers in Hemodynamically Stable, Non-Ventilated Cancer Patients
This is a prospective, single-center observational study conducted at the Kazakh Institute of Oncology and Radiology. The study included 107 clinically stable adult patients with cancer who required red blood cell transfusion based on a restrictive hemoglobin threshold. The aim of the study was to evaluate alternative physiological indicators of transfusion need and effectiveness. Measurements included oxygen extraction ratio (O₂ER), central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO₂), partial pressure of oxygen in central venous blood (PvO₂), arterio-venous oxygen difference (A-VO₂diff), lactate, and veno-arterial carbon dioxide difference (ΔCO₂). These parameters were assessed before and one hour after transfusion. For data analysis, patients were stratified into two groups based on their baseline O₂ER (≤35.4% and \>35.4%) to evaluate whether higher O₂ER is associated with more pronounced physiological response to transfusion.
Anemia|Blood Transfusion|Cancer|Hemoglobin|Alternative Physiological Transfusion Triggers
PROCEDURE: Red blood cell transfusion
Change in Oxygen Extraction Ratio (O₂ER), Difference in oxygen extraction ratio measured before and one hour after red blood cell transfusion, Baseline and 1 hour post-transfusion
Change in Partial Pressure of Oxygen in Central Venous Blood (PvO₂), Difference in PvO₂ measured before and one hour after transfusion, Baseline and 1 hour post-transfusion|Change in Central Venous Oxygen Saturation (ScvO₂), Difference in ScvO₂ measured before and one hour after transfusion, Baseline and 1 hour post-transfusion|Change in Lactate Concentration, Difference in serum lactate measured before and one hour after transfusion, Baseline and 1 hour post-transfusion|Change in Arterio-Venous Oxygen Difference (A-VO₂diff), Difference in arteriovenous oxygen difference measured before and one hour after transfusion, Baseline and 1 hour post-transfusion|Change in Veno-Arterial Carbon Dioxide Difference (ΔCO₂), Difference in ΔCO₂ measured before and one hour after transfusion, Baseline and 1 hour post-transfusion
This is a prospective, single-center observational study conducted at the Kazakh Institute of Oncology and Radiology. The study included 107 clinically stable adult patients with cancer who required red blood cell transfusion based on a restrictive hemoglobin threshold. The aim of the study was to evaluate alternative physiological indicators of transfusion need and effectiveness. Measurements included oxygen extraction ratio (O₂ER), central venous oxygen saturation (ScvO₂), partial pressure of oxygen in central venous blood (PvO₂), arterio-venous oxygen difference (A-VO₂diff), lactate, and veno-arterial carbon dioxide difference (ΔCO₂). These parameters were assessed before and one hour after transfusion. For data analysis, patients were stratified into two groups based on their baseline O₂ER (≤35.4% and \>35.4%) to evaluate whether higher O₂ER is associated with more pronounced physiological response to transfusion.