Phase I, Dose Study to Look at the Safety and Pharmacokinetics of AZD8835 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumours
First time in patients study of AZD8835. The study has four parts. Part A AZD8835 is administered as a single agent in a multiple ascending dose escalation phase to investigate dose level for monotherapy. Part B follows the multiple ascending dose phase, additional patients with tumors with documented PIK3CA gene mutation will be enrolled to a single dose expansion phase. Part C is a second dose escalation phase in which post-menopausal patients with estrogen receptor positive (ER+), HER2 negative breast cancer will receive AZD8835 in combination with fulvestrant. Part D follows the combination dose escalation phase of the study, additional postmenopausal patients with ER+/HER2 negative breast cancer with documented PIK3CA gene mutation will be enrolled to a AZD8835 and fulvestrant combination dose-expansion phase at maximum tolerated dose or recommended phase II dose.
Advanced Solid Malignancies|Breast Cancer - ER+, HER2 -|Breast Cancer - ER+, HER2-, PIK3CA Gene Mutation
DRUG: AZD8835|DRUG: AZD8835|DRUG: AZD8835 in combination with fulvestrant|DRUG: AZD8835 in combination with fulvestrant
Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended Phase II dose of oral AZD8835 as a single agent and in combination with fulvestrant, MTD - A dose will be considered non-tolerated and dose escalation will stop if 2 or more of up to 6 evaluable patients experience a dose limiting toxicity at a dose level. Once the non-tolerated dose is defined, the MTD will be confirmed at the previous dose level below the non-tolerated dose or a dose between the non-tolerated dose and the last tolerated dose my be investigated. A minimum of 6 evaluable patients are required to determine the MTD. Recommended Phase II dose - A minimum of 6 evaluable patients is necessary to determine the recommended dose. A dose will be considered non-tolerated and dose escalation will stop if 2 or more patients experience a dose dose limiting toxicity at a dose level., At the end of one cycle of treatment|Establish the preliminary safety and tolerability profile of oral AZD8835 as a single agent and in combination with fulvestrant, Assessed in terms of adverse events and laboratory data that is collected on all patients, Up to a projected 36 months
To establish the pharmacokinetic profile of oral AZD8835 as a single agent and in combination with fulvestrant, Venous blood samples (2 mL) for determination of concentrations of AZD8835 and the investigation of AZ8835 metabolites in plasma will be taken during Parts A, B, C, D, Venous blood samples will be collected pre-dose and at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, and 96 hours post dose - exact schedule varies according to Part A, B, C, or D|To evaluate the preliminary efficacy and anti-tumor activity of oral AZD8835 as a single agent or in combination with fulvestrant, Categorization of objective tumor response will be based on RECIST v1.1 guidelines for complete response, partial response, stable disease, or progression of disease, Tumour response will be assessed at the completion of Cycle 2 (Week 8) and patients will be restaged after every 8 weeks for up to 1 year and every 12 weeks thereafter; assessments should be performed until disease progression.|To evaluate the pharmacodynamic (PDc) effect of oral AZD8835 as a single agent and in combination with fulvestrant, Tumor samples will be analyzed to assess PRAS40 phosphorylation, AKT phosphorylation, S6 phosphorylation, FOXO3a localisation, Tumour biopsies will be collected: (1) at pretreatment, (2) at one on-treatment time point (preferably Cycle 2 Day 1), and (3) at end of study treatment (preferably at disease progression)
AZD8835 is a novel small molecule that inhibits cancer progression by blocking PI3 kinase pathway components p110α and p110δ.

In this first-time-in-patient study, AZD8835 will initially be administered as a single agent to patients with advanced solid malignancies. Patients will be treated at a starting dose of 20 mg twice daily (BID), administered weekly on Days 1 and 4 and will be escalated to reach a maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) in patients as defined by dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). A BID intermittent dosing schedule administered weekly on Days 1 and 4 of an oral formulation of AZD8835 will be used, as deemed optimal and effective in non-clinical studies, primarily to determine the safety and tolerability of AZD8835. The pharmacokinetics (PK) of AZD8835 and potential biological activity will also be investigated. In Part A of this study, AZD8835 will be administered as a single agent in a multiple ascending dose escalation phase to investigate the appropriate monotherapy dose level for clinical use. Additional dosing schedules may be studies, including dosing on Days 1 and 2 of each week, rather than Days 1 and 4.

Backfilled pharmacodynamic (PDc) cohorts in selected patients with tumours that have documented mutations in the phosphatidylinositol-4,5- bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA) gene will allow further preliminary assessment of the biological effect of AZD8835 in these patients.

Following the single-agent dose-escalation phase of the study, additional patients with tumours that have documented mutations in the PIK3CA gene will be enrolled to a single-agent dose-expansion phase at the MTD or recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) at the selected dose schedule (as appropriate) to explore further the safety, tolerability, PK, and biological activity at the selected dose (Part B).

In addition, a further dose-escalation phase will be initiated following the observation of specific pre-determined criteria in the single-agent dose escalation, in which postmenopausal patients with oestrogen receptor positive (ER+), HER2 negative breast cancer will receive AZD8835 in combination with fulvestrant (Part C). The combination dose-escalation phase will investigate the appropriate combination dose level for clinical use.

Following the combination dose-escalation phase of the study, additional postmenopausal patients with ER+ breast cancer and tumours with documented mutations of the PIK3CA gene will be enrolled to a AZD8835 and fulvestrant combination dose-expansion phase at the MTD or RP2D (as appropriate) to explore further the safety, tolerability, PK, and biological activity at the selected dose (Part D).