Anthocyanin Extract and Phospholipid Curcumin in Colorectal Adenoma
It has been shown that curcumin and cyanidin-3-glucoside (C3G) have anticancer effects. In this clinical trial we compare the affect of their combination vs placebo in a four weeks intervention before endoscopic polypectomy.
Colorectal Adenoma|Risk Reduction
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Mirtoselect® + Meriva®|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
Change in Beta Catenin Expression, Change of immunohistochemical expression of beta-catenin in normal and adenomatous colonic tissue, baseline and 4 weeks
Change in Biomarkes Expression, Change in immunohistochemical expression of Nuclear Factor-Kβ (NFKβ), Ki-67 Labeling Index, and P53 in normal tissue and displasia, baseline and 4 weeks
Colonic adenomatous polyps are pre cancer lesions and are used as intermediate markers for testing agents with potential cancer prevention.

Meriva© is a bioavailable form of curcumin, a polyphenolic compound obtained from turmeric (Curcuma longa L.) endowed with anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and antitumor effects. In vivo data indicate that curcumin formulated with phosphatidylcholine furnishes higher blood levels of parent agent than natural curcumin.

Mirtoselect©, an anthocyanin mixture from bilberry containing isolated cyanidin-3-glucoside (C3G), the most abundant anthocyanin in diet, prevents intestinal adenoma formation in the Apc(Min) mouse model.

The investigators hypothesize that the combination of both agents will decrease the expression of proteins involved in colon tumorigenesis relative to placebo.

The change of biomarker expression between pre-treatment biopsy and post-treatment endoscopic resection in the target adenoma and the normal rectal mucosa will be the response measures.

The primary response measure is the change of immunohistochemical (IHC) expression of β-catenin in adenomatous tissue and normal rectal mucosa. Secondary response measures are the changes of IHC Nuclear Factor-Kβ (NFKβ), cell proliferation by Ki-67 Labeling Index and apoptosis by P53 in adenomatous and adjacent normal mucosa.

The study design is a phase II, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, window of opportunity trial of the combination of Mirtoselect 1 gr/day+Meriva 1 gr/day or placebo. Subjects with histological confirmation of colorectal adenomatous polyps \>1 cm not suitable to immediate complete removal will be enrolled in a 4-week intervention trial before endoscopic polypectomy.

The demonstration of a biological activity of the two agent combination may provide the rationale for a phase III trial aimed at reducing the risk of colon cancer in high risk subjects.