Increasing the Dose of Survivorship Care Planning in Improving Care and Outcomes in Prostate Cancer Survivors Receiving Androgen Deprivation Therapy
This trial studies how well increasing the dose of survivorship care planning improves care and outcomes in prostate cancer survivors receiving radiation therapy and androgen deprivation therapy. There is a need for coordinated care between the cancer care team with the primary care team. This is especially important for prostate cancer survivors who need routine cancer care follow-up with their radiation oncologist and also coordinated routine follow-up with their primary care provider (PCP). This is important because androgen deprivation therapy increases a patient's risk for developing diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, and cardiovascular events. Increasing the dose of survivorship may improve care and outcomes of cancer survivors than standard practices.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survivorship Care Plan|OTHER: Treatment Plan
Proportion of patients who saw a primary care provider (PCP) or cardiologist and had fasting blood glucose and cholesterol checked, Will be evaluated on the individual level using an adjusted chi-square test that computes clustering correction factors computed separately in each treatment (Donner 1989) and tested with a 2-sided type I error of 0.05. A generalized estimating equation (GEE) (Liang 1986), adjusting for practice as a random covariate as part of a 2 level hierarchy (patients nested within clusters) will be used to determine the effect of intervention, androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) duration, person delivering the survivorship care plan (SCP), whether the patient saw a PCP or cardiologist, and possible confounders such as age, race, and number of baseline cardiovascular disease risk factors (none, hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, and/or known coronary heart disease). A sensitivity analysis will be conducted assuming patients who have missing data at 24 months did not have their glucose and cholesterol checked or see their PCP or cardiologist., At 24 months after completion of radiation therapy (RT)
Calculated cardiovascular (CVD) risk score, Will be calculated using the American Heart Association Risk Calculator. A linear mixed model (Laird 1982) with practice as a random covariate as part of a 2 level hierarchy (patients nested within clusters) will be used to compare the treatment arms using a significance level of 0.05., At baseline and 24 months|Coordination of care with respect to the PCP or cardiologist, Will be measured using the components of Primary Care Index. Distribution will be provided for the entire study cohort only and not by arm. Statistical testing using a t-test (Wilcoxon test if the data is not normal) will only be performed if there is sufficient data on the control arm to allow for between treatment arm differences. A linear mixed effects model with practice as a random covariate as part of a 3 level hierarchy (surveys nested within patients nested within clusters) will be used to assess the effect of the intervention on the coordination of care for the PCP or cardiologist, with baseline score as a covariate, at 12 months and 24 months after completing RT (Liang 1986). Similar models will be used to determine the effect of various baseline covariates, including ADT duration, number of cardiovascular risk factors, person delivering the SCP, Brief Health Literacy Screen (BHLS) score, and race ethnicity on the coordination of care scores., At baseline and up to 24 months after completion of RT|Satisfaction with care with respect to the PCP or cardiologist, Will be measured using the Patient Satisfaction with Care questionnaire. Distribution will be provided for the entire study cohort only and not by arm. Statistical testing using a t-test (Wilcoxon test if the data is not normal) will only be performed if there is sufficient data on the control arm to allow for between treatment arm differences. A linear mixed effects model with practice as a random covariate as part of a 3 level hierarchy (surveys nested within patients nested within clusters) will be used to assess the effect of the intervention on the satisfaction with cancer care for the PCP or cardiologist, with baseline score as a covariate, at 12 months and 24 months after completing RT (Liang 1986). Similar models will be used to determine the effect of various baseline covariates, including ADT duration, number of cardiovascular risk factors, person delivering the SCP, BHLS score, and race ethnicity on the satisfaction with cancer care scores., At baseline and up to 24 months after completion of RT|Eligible screened patients with a PCP or cardiologist, Each National Cancer Institute NCI Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) practice will screen (step 0) and keep a log of all patients who are eligible, regardless of whether the patient has an existing PCP and/or cardiologist. The percentage of the enrolled patients out of all eligible patients (excluding the PCP requirement) will be provided along with the percentages broken down by practice., At baseline|Current practice related to SCP delivery and prostate cancer survivor monitoring, Descriptive statistics, such as frequencies for the number of sites that currently use a treatment plan and/or SCP, and routinely perform testing and means for the percent of patients and/or their PCPs who receive a treatment plan and/or SCP, will be performed. Comparisons by arm will be made using a chi square test or t-test. If significant differences exist, at a two-sided significance level of 0.05, the respective covariates may be added to the models for the primary and secondary endpoints., Prior to randomization|High health literacy levels, Will be associated with improved patient-reported coordination of care and satisfaction with care. Will be assessed using BHLS., At baseline
Coordination of care with respect to the cancer specialist, The distribution of the coordination of care for the cancer specialist by treatment arm and the entire study cohort will be provided with between treatment arm differences tested using a t-test (Wilcoxon test if the data is non-normal). A linear mixed effects model with practice as a random covariate as part of a 3 level hierarchy (surveys nested within patients nested within clusters) will be used to assess the effect of the intervention on the coordination of care for the cancer specialist, with baseline score as a covariate, at 12 months and 24 months after completing RT (Liang 1986). Similar models will be used to determine the effect of various baseline covariates, including ADT duration, number of cardiovascular risk factors, person delivering the SCP, BHLS score, and race/ethnicity on the coordination of care scores., At baseline and up to 24 months after completion of RT|Satisfaction of care with respect to the cancer specialist, The distribution of the satisfaction with cancer care for the cancer specialist by treatment arm and the entire study cohort will be provided with between treatment arm differences tested using a t-test (Wilcoxon test if the data is non-normal). A linear mixed effects model with practice as a random covariate as part of a 3 level hierarchy (surveys nested within patients nested within clusters) will be used to assess the effect of the intervention on the satisfaction with cancer care for the cancer specialist, with baseline score as a covariate, at 12 months and 24 months after completing RT (Liang 1986). Similar models will be used to determine the effect of various baseline covariates, including ADT duration, number of cardiovascular risk factors, person delivering the SCP, BHLS score, and race/ethnicity on the satisfaction with cancer care scores., At baseline and up to 24 months after completion of RT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if the experimental arm (increased doses of survivorship care planning \[SCP\]) has more patients who saw a primary care provider and had blood glucose and cholesterol checked in year 2 (13-24 months) after finishing radiation therapy (RT) as compared to the control arm.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if patients who receive increased doses of SCP have lower cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk score at 2 years as compared to patients who receive a one-time SCP.

II. To determine if patients who receive increased doses of SCP have improved patient reported coordination and satisfaction with care with respect to their primary care provider (PCP) or cardiologist as compared to patients who receive a one-time SCP and whether health literacy modifies the effect of SCP use on patient-reported coordination of care and satisfaction with care with respect to their PCP or cardiologist.

III. To determine the number of patients eligible, but without a PCP/cardiologist.

IV. To describe the current practice related to SCP delivery and prostate cancer survivor monitoring in participating National Cancer Institute (NCI) Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) practices.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if patients who receive increased doses of SCP have improved patient reported coordination and satisfaction with care with respect to their cancer specialist as compared to patients who receive a one-time SCP and whether health literacy modifies the effect of SCP use on patient-reported coordination of care and satisfaction with care with respect to their cancer specialist.

OUTLINE: Practices are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A (STANDARD): Practices review a SCP with patients and send it to the PCP during the last week of RT.

ARM B (ENHANCED SCP): Practices review a treatment plan with patient and send it to the PCP at the beginning of RT. Practices also review a SCP as arm A.

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.