Postoperative Adjuvant Immunotherapy Combined with Radiotherapy Versus Surgery Alone in Locally Advanced UTUC
This is a prospective cohort study to analyse the safety and efficacy of postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy combined with immunotherapy versus surgery alone group of UTUC patients with T3-4 stages or lymph nodes metastasis(N+) status.
Ureter Cancer|Renal Pelvic Carcinoma|Advanced Urothelial Carcinoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Immunotherapy+radiotherapy|OTHER: surveillance alone
DFS, Disease-free survival，The time between the date of randomization and the date of first documented recurrence (local urothelial tract, local non-urothelial tract or distant), or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.), 1-year and 3-year
OS, overall survival，the time from randomization to the date of death from any cause, 1-year and 3-year|CSS, Cancer-specific survival，the time from randomization to the date of death due to disease (urothelial cancer)., 1-year and 3-year
This study is a prospective cohort study.

1. Observation group: patients in the observation group were T3-4,N+ pyeloureteral cancer patients who did not tolerate chemotherapy or refused chemotherapy after radical surgery. No treatment will be given after surgery, and regular review will be conducted.
2. Postoperative immunotherapy+radiotherapy group:

Adjuvant immunotherapy: the immunotherapy drug choice is tirilizumab, which has been recommended in metastatic uroepithelial cancer in China. Tirelizumab 200mg Q3w; the duration of immunotherapy is recommended to be used for at least 1 year.

Adjuvant radiotherapy can be given concurrently or sequentially with adjuvant immunotherapy; it is recommended that radiotherapy can be started within 4-6 weeks after surgery. Rotational intensity-modulated radiotherapy (VMAT), daily image-guided radiotherapy (Daily IGRT) technique is used.

Irradiation range:

Renal pelvis and upper ureter: ipsilateral renal fossa, para-abdominal aorta (including upper ureteral alignment area), common iliac lymph node area; Middle and lower ureteral carcinoma: parabasal abdominal aorta (renal hilar vessels and following levels), common iliac lymph node area (right side needs to include paraventricular lymph node area) + internal and external iliac lymph node area + middle and lower ureteral alignment area, entrance of the ureteral bladder.

Radiotherapy dose: 45-50Gy/25f/5w, 62.5Gy/25f/5w regimen was given to suspected metastatic lymph nodes visible on imaging. Ensure that normal tissue is within the dose limits.

Note: The right tumour para-abdominal aortic lymph node drainage area needs to include: para vena cava + intervening vena cava + left para-abdominal aorta Left tumour para-abdominal lymph node drainage area needs to include: intervening vena cava + left para-abdominal aorta