Interferon α for the Therapy of Minimal Residual Disease
This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of interferon α among patients undergone unmanipulated blood and marrow transplantation following day 60 post-transplantation who were minimal residual disease positive after transplantation.

Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is an effective treatment option for acute leukemia and many other hematological malignancies. However, post-transplant relapse can occur in some patients, and the prognosis of these patients is usually very poor.The persistence or recurrence of minimal residual disease (MRD) in the post-transplant period is an independent risk factor of relapse. Therefore, MRD monitoring can be used to screen patients with a high risk of relapse to provide timely intervention and prevent post-transplant relapse.Interferon α-2b exerts a relatively strong immunomodulatory effect. It can kill acute leukemia (AL) cells by regulating T-cell and/or natural killer cell functions.Consequently, interferon α-2b may have potential therapeutic value for AL patients with MRD-positive after transplantation.

The study hypothesis:

Prevention of relapse using interferon α-2b following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in patients with standard risk acute leukemia can reduce relapse rate.
Leukemia
DRUG: Interferon Alfa-2b
relapse rate, number of participants with morphologic relapse at one year, participants will be followed for an expected average of 1 year
The immunologic impact of subcutaneous interferon α-2b, examine the immune reconstitution of subgroups of T cells and nature killer cells after interferon α-2b application, participants will be followed for an expected average of 1 year
Standard risk acute leukemia patients (except t(9;22)(q34; q11), t(15;17), inv(16)(p13q22), t(16;16)(p13; q22), or t(8;21)(q22; q22) cytogenetic abnormalities.) undergone unmanipulated blood and marrow transplantation following day 60 post-transplantation who were minimal residual disease positive after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation received interferon α-2b. The end points were safety and immunologic response. Following time is 12 months.

Primary Outcome Measures:

\*The feasibility and efficacy of administering of subcutaneous interferon α-2b in this patient population. \[ Time Frame: 1 years \]

Secondary Outcome Measures:

\*The immunologic impact and clinical outcomes of subcutaneous interferon α-2b in patients after unmanipulated blood and marrow transplantation \[ Time Frame: 1 years \] Estimated Enrollment:81 Study Start Date: Jun 2014 Estimated Study Completion Date: Jun 2016

Intervention Details Description:

\*Drug:Interferon α-2b (subcutaneously at dosages of 3 million units 2-3 times per week) for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Acute leukemia patients who were MRD positive after day 60 post-transplantation receive interferon α-2b(subcutaneously at dosages of 3 million units 2-3 times per week). Interferon α-2b continues for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Participants will be seen periodically while they are receiving interferon α-2b. Physical exams and blood tests will be performed weekly for the first two weeks and then every other week until the completion of 6 months therapy.

Eligibility Ages Eligible for Study: 1-60 Years Genders Eligible for Study: Both Accepts Healthy Volunteers: No Criteria

The trial will be terminated in following situation

1. Severe toxicity occurrence
2. Cumulative incidence of relapse increased) (≥ 30%)
3. Cumulative incidence of mortality increased (≥ 30%)
4. Cumulative incidence of severe graft-versus-host disease increased (≥ 30%)
5. Although large enough sample had been enrolled, it did not reach statistical significance