A Phase II Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Salvage Preoperative PD-1 Inhibitor Combined with Chemotherapy Neoadjuvant Therapy in Recurrent and Metastatic LPSCC/HPSCC
A prospective, multicenter, randomized controlled phase II study; Patients who met the inclusion criteria were divided into groups according to whether they had received radical radiotherapy or postoperative radiotherapy in the past. Group A was the group that had not received radiotherapy in the past, and Group B was the group that had received radiotherapy. Group A was randomly given 3 cycles of pembrolizumab + chemotherapy (see P22 for detailed chemotherapy regimen) in the experimental group at a 1:1 ratio, followed by surgery. After surgery, the patients were stratified according to whether there were high-risk factors. The high-risk group received concurrent chemoradiotherapy + pembrolizumab maintenance therapy (up to 15 cycles), and the low-risk group received radiotherapy + pembrolizumab maintenance therapy (up to 15 cycles). The control group underwent direct surgery and received concurrent chemoradiotherapy or radiotherapy after surgery. The total dose of radiotherapy was (high-risk group: 60-66Gy, 2Gy/time; low-risk group: 44-50 Gy, 2Gy/time) adjuvant therapy, and the radiotherapy time was within 2 months after surgery. Group B was randomly given 3 cycles of pembrolizumab + chemotherapy in the experimental group at a ratio of 1:1, followed by surgery and maintenance therapy with pembrolizumab after surgery (up to 15 cycles). The control group was given surgery directly, and observation/re-radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy was chosen by the doctor after surgery. The total dose of radiotherapy was (56-60Gy, 2Gy/time), and the radiotherapy time was within 2 months after surgery. The enrolled patients must be closely monitored for adverse reactions to chemotherapy, and the time, grade, treatment measures, and outcomes must be recorded. All patients received an examination after the end of neoadjuvant therapy, an examination after surgery, and an examination at the 9th week after the first radiotherapy, and then reviewed every 3 months for 1 year; after 1 year, they were reviewed once every 6 months for 3 years; the recurrence and survival data of the patients were recorded.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
2-year progression-free survival rate (2y-PFS rate), To evaluate the 2y-PFS rate of neoadjuvant PD-1 inhibitors combined with chemotherapy in Arm 1 and Arm 3; PFS was defined as the time from patient enrollment to the occurrence of the following events (local progression/recurrence or distant metastasis (including neoadjuvant stage) assessed by imaging or biopsy, death from any cause), 2 year
Pathological complete response rate (pCR rate), To evaluate the pCR rate of neoadjuvant PD-1 inhibitors combined with chemotherapy in Arm 1 and Arm 3; pCR was defined as the absence of residual invasive squamous cell carcinoma cells in the resected primary tumor specimen and lymph nodes, 3 months|Objective response rate (ORR), To evaluate the ORR of neoadjuvant therapy with PD-1 inhibitors plus chemotherapy in Arm 1 and Arm 3; ORR is defined as The proportion of patients whose tumor volume shrinks to a pre-specified value and can be maintained for a certain period of time. It includes the proportion of patients with complete remission (CR) and partial remission (PR) to the total number of evaluable cases., 6 months|3-year overall survival rate (3y-OS rate), To evaluate the 3y-OS rate of neoadjuvant PD-1 inhibitors plus chemotherapy in Arm 1 and Arm 3 in the overall population; OS was defined as the time from randomization until death from any cause., 3 years|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TRAEs) of pembrolizumab combined with chemotherapy in neoadjuvant therapy, TRAEs include 5 levels, base on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) is widely accepted as the standard classification and severity grading scale for adverse events in cancer therapy, clinical trials and other oncology settings., 3 years
A prospective, multicenter, randomized controlled phase II study; Patients who met the inclusion criteria were divided into groups according to whether they had received radical radiotherapy or postoperative radiotherapy in the past. Group A was the group that had not received radiotherapy in the past, and Group B was the group that had received radiotherapy. Group A was randomly given 3 cycles of pembrolizumab + chemotherapy (see P22 for detailed chemotherapy regimen) in the experimental group at a 1:1 ratio, followed by surgery. After surgery, the patients were stratified according to whether there were high-risk factors. The high-risk group received concurrent chemoradiotherapy + pembrolizumab maintenance therapy (up to 15 cycles), and the low-risk group received radiotherapy + pembrolizumab maintenance therapy (up to 15 cycles). The control group underwent direct surgery and received concurrent chemoradiotherapy or radiotherapy after surgery. The total dose of radiotherapy was (high-risk group: 60-66Gy, 2Gy/time; low-risk group: 44-50 Gy, 2Gy/time) adjuvant therapy, and the radiotherapy time was within 2 months after surgery. Group B was randomly given 3 cycles of pembrolizumab + chemotherapy in the experimental group at a ratio of 1:1, followed by surgery and maintenance therapy with pembrolizumab after surgery (up to 15 cycles). The control group was given surgery directly, and observation/re-radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy was chosen by the doctor after surgery. The total dose of radiotherapy was (56-60Gy, 2Gy/time), and the radiotherapy time was within 2 months after surgery. The enrolled patients must be closely monitored for adverse reactions to chemotherapy, and the time, grade, treatment measures, and outcomes must be recorded. All patients received an examination after the end of neoadjuvant therapy, an examination after surgery, and an examination at the 9th week after the first radiotherapy, and then reviewed every 3 months for 1 year; after 1 year, they were reviewed once every 6 months for 3 years; the recurrence and survival data of the patients were recorded.