Evaluation of Unilateral Ultrasound Guided Paravertebral Block as Perioperative Analgesia For Lower Limb-Sparing Surgery In Adult Cancer Patients
Ultrasound imaging has revolutionized the practice of regional anesthesia in that the operator can visualize and identify the paravertebral space, needle during its passage through the tissues, as well as deposition and spread of local anesthetic into the desired spaces. The usage of ultrasound may facilitate more rapid block onset and prolong duration with the added advantage of decrease in drug dosage, reduction in incidence of local anesthetic toxicity, increase success rate, reduction in procedure pain and better patient satisfaction.
Unilateral U/S PVB
DRUG: Paravertebral group (group P):
Total intraoperative fentanyl consumption., Total intraoperative fentanyl consumption., 24 hours
Visual Analouge Scale at 0 , 4 , 8 ,12 ,24 hours postoperatively., Visual Analouge Scaleat 0 , 4 , 8 ,12 ,24 hours postoperatively.The VAS consists of a 10-cm line, with anchors at either end. One end is marked "no pain" and the other end is marked "the worst imaginable pain". The patient marks the place on the line to indicate his or her pain intensity. The clinician then measures the line with a ruler and assigns a score., 24 hours|Heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure ., Heart rate(beat per minutes) and mean arterial blood pressure(mm HG), 24 hours|Morphine consumption postoperatively for 24 hours.., Morphine consumption per mg postoperatively for 24 hours.., 24 hours Postoperative
Paravertebral block targets drug delivery to the site of pain, thus decreasing opioids use. It can provide greater overall comfort with lower pain scores and greater tolerance of physical activity during the initial postoperative period.

Ultrasound imaging has revolutionized the practice of regional anesthesia in that the operator can visualize and identify the paravertebral space, needle during its passage through the tissues, as well as deposition and spread of local anesthetic into the desired spaces. The usage of ultrasound may facilitate more rapid block onset and prolong duration with the added advantage of decrease in drug dosage, reduction in incidence of local anesthetic toxicity, increase success rate, reduction in procedure pain and better patient satisfaction.

To the best of researchers' knowledge, evaluation of unilateral ultrasound guided paravertebral block as perioperative analgesia for lower limb-sparing surgery in adult cancer patients was not investigated before.