Apixaban in Preventing Secondary Cancer Related Venous Thrombosis in Cancer Patients Who Have Completed Anticoagulation Therapy
This randomized phase III trial studies the best dose of apixaban and how well it works in preventing secondary cancer related venous thrombosis in cancer patients who have completed anticoagulation therapy. Apixaban may help in prevention by blocking some of the enzymes needed for venous thrombosis.
Cerebral Vein Thrombosis|Deep Vein Thrombosis|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Pulmonary Embolism|Splanchnic Vein Thrombosis
DRUG: Apixaban
CIF of Major or Clinically Relevant Non-major Bleeding Combined With Death as Competing Risk, Incidence of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major bleeding will be estimated using the cumulative incidence function (CIF) with death without major bleeding or clinically relevant non-major bleeding and with adverse events that results in termination of treatment (including vascular events) as competing risks. The time to event is defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of a major bleeding, a clinically relevant non-major bleeding, death without major bleeding or clinically relevant non-major bleeding, or an adverse event that results in termination of treatment. Patients who were lost to follow-up, who withdrew informed consent before the end of the predefined study duration will be censored at the last day the patient had a complete assessment for study outcomes within the intended study period. The difference in the incidences of the combined endpoint at 12 months between treatment arms will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval, 12 months
Proportion of Patients Who Experienced at Least One Bleeding Event, Incidence of major bleeding and clinically relevant non-major bleeding will be estimated using the cumulative incidence function (CIF) with death without major bleeding or clinically relevant non-major bleeding and with adverse events that results in termination of treatment (including vascular events) as competing risks. The time to event is defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of a major bleeding, a clinically relevant non-major bleeding, death without major bleeding or clinically relevant non-major bleeding, or an adverse event that results in termination of treatment. Patients who were lost to follow-up, who withdrew informed consent before the end of the predefined study duration will be censored at the last day the patient had a complete assessment for study outcomes within the intended study period. The difference in the incidences of the combined endpoint at 6 months between treatment arms will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval., 6 months|Cumulative Incidence Function of DVT/PE Treating Death or AE Resulting in End of Treatment as Competing Risk by Study Arm, For the secondary outcome analysis, the time from starting treatment to the first event of the composite deep vein thrombosis (DVT)/pulmonary embolism (PE) outcome will be analyzed using the same method described in the section for primary outcome plan. For this outcome, death without DVT/PE and adverse events leading to termination of treatment will be treated as the competing risks., 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Any episode of major bleeding including fatal bleeding or clinically relevant non-major bleeding.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The proportion of patients who experienced at least one such bleeding event within 6 months of beginning treatment.

II. Venous thromboembolism (VTE) recurrence including deep vein thrombosis (DVT), pulmonary embolism (PE), fatal PE, or arterial thromboembolism.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive lower dose apixaban orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 365 days.

GROUP II: Patients receive higher dose apixaban PO BID for 365 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.