Modified Barium Swallow in Measuring Swallowing Function After Surgery in Patients With Oropharyngeal Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies the modified barium swallow in measuring swallowing function after surgery in patients with oropharyngeal cancer who have undergone surgery. New diagnostic procedures, such as the modified barium swallow, may be effective in studying the side effects of cancer therapy in patients who received treatment for oropharyngeal cancer
Oropharyngeal Cancer
PROCEDURE: diagnostic imaging|OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Dichotomized aspiration, measured via the maximum Penetration-Aspiration Scale (PAS) delineated from the MBS, The maximum PAS score will be dichotomized into aspiration vs no aspiration. The highest (closest to 8 on the PAS scale) PAS score of the 10 swallows will be used for dichotomization. A PAS score of 6 or greater indicates aspiration, while a PAS score of 5 or less is indicative of no aspiration. McNemar's test for correlated proportions will be used to assess the difference between the two treatment groups., Baseline
Swallowing function, assessed by the MDADI score, The total MDADI score will be analyzed using paired t-tests., Baseline|Perceived subjective swallowing function, assessed using the EAT-10, The total EAT-10 score will be analyzed using paired t-tests., Baseline|Cervical esophageal stricture measurements, A paired t-test will be used to assess the difference in cervical esophageal stricture diameters between the two treatment groups., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare aspiration in oropharyngeal carcinoma patients that underwent transoral robotic surgery (TORS) vs. chemoradiotherapy (CRT) via an objective instrument, the modified barium swallow (MBS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare patient-perceived swallowing function of oropharyngeal carcinoma patients that underwent TORS vs. CRT via a subjective instrument, the M.D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) using the total MDADI score.

II. To compare patient-perceived swallowing function of oropharyngeal carcinoma patients that underwent TORS vs. CRT via a second subjective instrument, the Eating Assessment Tool (EAT-10) using the total EAT-10 score.

III. To estimate the correlation between the maximum Penetration Aspiration Scale (PAS) score and MDADI total score in TORS or CRT oropharyngeal carcinoma patients regardless of treatment modality.

IV. To estimate the correlation between the maximum PAS score and EAT-10 total score in TORS or CRT oropharyngeal carcinoma patients regardless of treatment modality.

V. To estimate the correlation between MDADI total score and EAT-10 total score in TORS or CRT oropharyngeal carcinoma patients regardless of treatment modality.

VI. To estimate cervical esophageal stricture diameters after TORS vs. CRT via an objective instrument, the MBS.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo the modified barium swallow, comprising swallowing boluses of thin liquid barium, barium honey, barium pudding, and barium crackers while undergoing fluoroscopic imaging.