Pembrolizumab Activity in Patients With Homologous Recombination Competent and Deficient Tumors
Phase II trial in which patients with metastatic solid tumors experiencing progression after first line standard chemotherapy or for which there is no standard chemotherapy, and for which pembrolizumab does not have an FDA or compendia listing approved indication, will receive pembrolizumab intravenously at a dose of 200 mg every 3 weeks.
Solid Tumor, Adult
DRUG: Pembrolizumab 200 mg Q3W
Immune-related Objective Response Rate, Immune-related Response Criteria (irRC) will be utilized for assessment of response to therapy, defined as the percent of participants who achieved complete or partial response. Per irRC, for target lesions assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations not less than 4 weeks apart; Partial Response (PR), ≥50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations at least 4 weeks apart., 20 weeks
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Immune-related Response Criteria (irRC) will be utilized for assessment of response to therapy. PFS will be defined as the time from treatment start to time of disease progression or death, whichever comes first. Per irRC, for target lesions assessed by CT or MRI: Progressive Disease (PD), at least 25% increase in tumor burden compared with nadir (at any single time point) in two consecutive observations at least 4 weeks apart., 20 weeks|Overall Response, Immune-related Response Criteria (irRC) will be utilized for assessment of response to therapy, defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to end of study or death, whichever comes first. Per irRC, for target lesions assessed by CT or MRI:Complete Response (CR) is the disappearance of all lesions in two consecutive observations not less than 4 weeks apart; Partial Response (PR) is a ≥50% decrease in tumor burden compared with baseline in two observations at least 4 weeks apart; and Progressive Disease (PD) is at least 25% increase in tumor burden compared with nadir (at any single time point) in two consecutive observations at least 4 weeks apart. Everything else is considered Stable Disease (SD)., 3 years
Patients with metastatic or recurrent solid malignancy who have progressed on first line standard of care treatment or for which defined standard of care does not exist or is not readily available are eligible to participate on this trial. Patients for which pembrolizumab has an FDA approved indication and for whom pembrolizumab is covered by their insurance should receive standard commercial pembrolizumab and will not be eligible for this trial.

The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate the Immune-Related Objective Response Rate (IR-ORR) achieved with pembrolizumab in patients with Fanconi Anemia Repair Pathway functionally competent and functionally deficient tumors.

Trial treatment should be administered on Day 1 of each cycle after all procedures/assessments have been completed. Trial treatment may be administered up to 3 days before or after the scheduled Day 1 of each cycle due to administrative reasons.

All trial treatments will be administered on an outpatient basis.

Pembrolizumab 200 mg will be administered as a 30 minute IV infusion every 3 weeks. Target infusion timing is 30 minutes.

Expansion Cohort:

Ten (10) additional subjects with the diagnosis of metastatic or recurrent endometrial carcinoma will be enrolled in the trial at the conclusion of regular enrollment.