Self-collection for HPV Testing to Improve Cervical Cancer Prevention (SHIP) Trial (LMI-001-A-S01)
This clinical trial evaluates the use of self-collected vaginal samples for human papillomavirus (HPV) testing in patients referred for a colposcopy and/or cervical excisional procedures to improve cervical cancer prevention. HPV is a common virus which usually causes infections that last only a few months, but sometimes can last longer. It is known to cause a variety of cancers including cancer of the cervix. Even though there are ways to detect cervical cancer early, many individuals do not undergo screening that involves pelvic exams. Over half of all new cervical cancer cases are among those who have either never been screened or who are not screened enough. Without appropriate screening and care, preventable pre-cancers may turn into cancer. A new way to detect cervical cancer is to have individuals collect their own vaginal sample for HPV testing to know their risk for cervical cancer. This may give individuals more flexibility and comfort having the ability to collect samples themselves, compared to a doctor performing a speculum examination and collecting the samples in a clinic. This study compares clinical accuracy of HPV testing on self-collected vaginal samples versus cervical samples collected by clinician.

The Self-collection for HPV Testing to Improve Cervical Cancer Prevention (SHIP) Trial is part of the National Cancer Institute (NCI)'s Cervical Cancer 'Last Mile' Initiative, a public private partnership that seeks to increase access to cervical cancer screening. The SHIP Trial focuses on developing clinical evidence to inform the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA)'s regulatory reviews of self-collection approaches as alternative sample collection approaches for cervical cancer screening. Several industry partner-specific self-collection device and assay combinations will be non-competitively and independently evaluated with a similar study design framework to inform pre-approval and/or post-approval regulatory requirements.
Cervical Carcinoma|Human Papillomavirus Infection
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Cervical Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Colposcopy|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|PROCEDURE: Endocervical Curettage|PROCEDURE: Excision|PROCEDURE: HPV Self-Collection|PROCEDURE: Human Papillomavirus Test|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration
Clinical sensitivity for self-collected (SC) samples, Will be defined as the probability of testing human papillomavirus (HPV) positive on SC sample given cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN)2+. Will report point estimate and 95% confidence intervals (CIs)., One-time, up to 90 days|Clinical sensitivity for clinician-collected (CC) samples, Will be defined as the probability of testing HPV positive on CC sample given CIN2+. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|Clinical specificity for SC samples, Will be defined as the probability of testing HPV negative on SC sample given \< CIN2. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|Clinical specificity for CC samples, Will be defined as the probability of testing HPV negative on CC sample given \< CIN2. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|False positive rate (FPR) for SC samples, Will be defined as the probability of testing HPV positive on SC sample given \< CIN2. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|FPR for CC samples, Will be defined as the probability of testing HPV positive on CC sample given \< CIN2. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|False negative rate (FNR) for SC samples, Will be defined as the probability of testing HPV negative on SC given CIN2+. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|FNR for CC samples, Will be defined as the probability of testing HPV negative on CC given CIN2+. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|Sensitivity ratio for SC versus CC samples, Will be defined as the sensitivity of SC divided by the sensitivity of CC. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|Specificity ratio for SC versus CC samples, Will be defined as the specificity of SC divided by the specificity of CC. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|False positive (FP) ratio for SC versus CC samples, The FP ratio is the FPR of SC divided by the FP of CC. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|False negative (FN) ratio for SC versus CC samples, The FN ratio is the FNR of SC divided by the FNR of CC. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|Positive percent agreement, Will be defined as the probability of positive on SC given positive on CC, expressed as a percent. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days|Negative percent agreement, Will be defined as the probability of negative on SC given negative on CC, expressed as a percent. Will report point estimate and 95% CIs., One-time, up to 90 days
Human factors affecting usability, Will be assessed by questionnaire data., One-time, up to 90 days|Human factors affecting acceptability, Will be assessed by questionnaire data., One-time, up to 90 days|Human factors affecting references for self-collection, Will be assessed by questionnaire data., One-time, up to 90 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate clinical accuracy (including clinical sensitivity, clinical specificity, false positive rate, and false negative rate) for the detection of cervical precancer/cancer and agreement/concordance (including positive percent agreement and negative percent agreement) on self-collected (SC) versus clinician collected (CC) samples for the following HPV genotype detections and groupings by Becton, Dickinson and Company (BD) Onclarity (trademark) HPV assay: Any high risk (HR) HPV genotype, HPV16, HPV18, HPV31, HPV45, HPV51, HPV52, HPV33/58, HPV35/39/68, HPV56/59/66.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate human factors affecting usability, acceptability, and preferences for self-collection.

OBJECTIVE FOR PILOT PHASE:

I. The emphasis in the pilot phase of the study will be on streamlining and refining study procedures and clinical and operational workflows.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo self-collection of two vaginal samples and then undergo clinician-collection of a cervical test sample. Patients then undergo standard of care colposcopy with biopsy/endocervical curettage and/or cervical excisional procedures as clinically indicated.

After completion of study intervention (one time), laboratory results available within 90 days are collected for study analysis purposes.