Phase III Trial of Concurrent Chemotherapy Alone in Patients With Low-risk Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to compare concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) alone with induction chemotherapy (gemcitabine+cisplatin) plus CCRT in patients with low-risk locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma(NPC).
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
RADIATION: IMRT and concurrent cisplatin|DRUG: gemcitabine and cisplatin (Induction chemotherapy)
Progress-free survival(PFS), defined as the time from random assignment to documented local or regional relapse, distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years
Overall survival(OS), defined as the time from random assignment to death from any cause., 3 years|Locoregional progression, defined as the time from random assignment to the occurrence of a locoregional progression. Cumulative incidence of locoregional progression will be calculated within a competing risk framework (Fine and Gray 1999)., 3 years|Distant progression, defined as the time from random assignment to the occurrence of a distant progression. Cumulative incidence of distant progression will be calculated within a competing risk framework (Fine and Gray 1999)., 3 years|Overall response rate, Tumour response was classified according to RECIST, version 1.1, 16 weeks after completion of concurrent chemoradiotherapy|Incidence of acute and late toxicity, Incidence of acute toxicity is calculated for each adverse event respectively and severity is evaluated on basis of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0 criteria. Late radiation toxicities were assessed using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group and European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer late radiation morbidity scoring scheme., 3 years
Patients with low risk NPC( Stage III-IVa, except T4N2/AnyTN3, AJCC 8th and EBV DNA \<4000 copies/ml) are randomly assigned to receive CCRT alone or induction chemotherapy plus CCRT. Patients in both groups receive cisplatin 100 mg/m² every 3 weeks for 3 cycles, concurrently with intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). IMRT is given as 2.12 Gy per fraction with five daily fractions per week to a total dose of 70 Gy. The induction chemotherapy plus CCRT group receive gemcitabine (1000 mg/m² d1,8) and cisplatin (80mg/m² d1) every 3 weeks for three cycles before CCRT. Our primary endpoint is progress-free survival. Secondary end points include overall survival (OS), Locoregional progression, Distant progression and toxic effects. All efficacy analyses are conducted in the intention-to-treat population, and the safety population include only patients who receive their randomly assigned treatment.