Optimizing Veteran-Centered Prostate Cancer Survivorship Care
This study will provide much needed information about how to optimize the quality of care and quality of life of Veterans who are survivors of prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Interactive Voice Response Symptom Management|BEHAVIORAL: Tailored Newsletters
The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Urinary Health, Irritative, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., Baseline|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Urinary Health, Obstructive, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., Baseline|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Bowel Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., Baseline|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Sexual Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., Baseline|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - General Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., Baseline|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - EPIC-26 Mean, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores.

The EPIC-26 mean is the average of the five EPIC subscales., Baseline|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Urinary Health, Irritative, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 5 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Urinary Health, Obstructive, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 5 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Bowel Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 5 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Sexual Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 5 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - General Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 5 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Urinary Health, Irritative, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 12 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Urinary Health, Obstructive, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 12 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Bowel Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 12 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - Sexual Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 12 Months|The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) - General Health, The EPIC is a 26-item measure that assesses symptom burden in four domains: urinary symptoms, bowel symptoms, sexual symptoms and vitality. Each domain has a subscale related to function and bother which together contribute to disease specific quality of life. Each domain has a range of possible scores from 0 to 100, with lower scores indicating worse symptom burden. Lower EPIC scores for any one domain are associated with lower function in that domain and lower QOL. Thus higher symptom burden, which reflects both function and bother scores, translate into lower EPIC scores., 12 Months|Confidence in Symptom Self-Management, Confidence in symptom self-management was measured using a 5-item scale developed from our pilot work. Scores range from 5 to 15 with higher scores indicating higher level of confidence., 5 months|Confidence in Symptom Self-Management, Confidence in symptom self-management was measured using a 5-item scale developed from our pilot work. Scores range from 5 to 15 with higher scores indicating higher level of confidence., 12 months
Cancer Control, We assessed perceived cancer control and outlook using five items from a validated measure developed to examine the psychosocial impact of prostate cancer. This measure, the Measuring Patients' Perceptions of the Outcomes of Treatment for Early PC instrument by Clark et al., includes three domains related to confidence that one's cancer is under control, worries about recurrence, and appraisals of one's coping with PC. Cancer control was assessed during the five- and 12-month follow-ups using two cancer control items from the instrument. Scores range from 2 to 10 and higher scores indicate higher confidence that cancer is under control., 5 months|Cancer Control, We assessed perceived cancer control and outlook using five items from a validated measure developed to examine the psychosocial impact of prostate cancer. This measure, the Measuring Patients' Perceptions of the Outcomes of Treatment for Early PC instrument by Clark et al., includes three domains related to confidence that one's cancer is under control, worries about recurrence, and appraisals of one's coping with PC. Cancer control was assessed during the five- and 12-month follow-ups using two cancer control items from the instrument. Scores range from 2 to 10 and higher scores indicate higher confidence that cancer is under control., 12 months|Cancer Outlook, We assessed perceived cancer control and outlook using five items from a validated measure developed to examine the psychosocial impact of prostate cancer. This measure, the Measuring Patients' Perceptions of the Outcomes of Treatment for Early PC instrument by Clark et al., includes three domains related to confidence that one's cancer is under control, worries about recurrence, and appraisals of one's coping with PC. Cancer outlook was assessed during the five- and 12-month follow-ups using three cancer outlook items from the instrument. Scores range from 3 to 15 and higher scores indicate more positive cancer outlook., 5 months|Cancer Outlook, We assessed perceived cancer control and outlook using five items from a validated measure developed to examine the psychosocial impact of prostate cancer. This measure, the Measuring Patients' Perceptions of the Outcomes of Treatment for Early PC instrument by Clark et al., includes three domains related to confidence that one's cancer is under control, worries about recurrence, and appraisals of one's coping with PC. Cancer outlook was assessed during the five- and 12-month follow-ups using three cancer outlook items from the instrument. Scores range from 3 to 15 and higher scores indicate more positive cancer outlook., 12 months|Perceived Efficacy in Patient-Physician Interactions (PEPPI) - 5-item Short Form, Self-efficacy in patient-physician interactions was assessed at 5 and 12 months using a five-item short form version of the Perceived Efficacy in Patient-Physician Interactions (PEPPI). The PEPPI was developed to measure older patients' self-efficacy in obtaining medical information and attention to their medical concerns from physicians. Scores range from 0-25 with higher scores indicating higher self-efficacy., 5 months|Perceived Efficacy in Patient-Physician Interactions (PEPPI) - 5-item Short Form, Self-efficacy in patient-physician interactions was assessed at 5 and 12 months using a five-item short form version of the Perceived Efficacy in Patient-Physician Interactions (PEPPI). The PEPPI was developed to measure older patients' self-efficacy in obtaining medical information and attention to their medical concerns from physicians. Scores range from 0-25 with higher scores indicating higher self-efficacy., 12 months|Brief Cope - 6 Items, We assessed participants' coping during the five- and 12-month follow-up assessments using six items from the 28-item Brief Cope instrument. This instrument measures emotion-focused, problem-focused, and dysfunctional coping and has been used in cancer survivors. Scores range from 1 to 5 with higher scores indicating better coping skills., 5 months|Brief Cope - 6 Items, We assessed participants' coping during the five- and 12-month follow-up assessments using six items from the 28-item Brief Cope instrument. This instrument measures emotion-focused, problem-focused, and dysfunctional coping and has been used in cancer survivors. Scores range from 1 to 5 with higher scores indicating better coping skills., 12 months|Veteran Quality of Life Scale (VR-12) - Physical Health, 2 Items, We assessed subjective physical health using 2 items from the VR-12 (SF-12 for veterans), an established measure of overall QOL that includes perceptions of one's health that may be impacted by prostate cancer. The scores range from 1- 3 and higher scores correspond to better health., 12 months|Veteran Quality of Life Scale (VR-12) - Emotional Health, 3 Items, We assessed subjective emotional health using 3 items from the VR-12 (SF-12 for veterans), an established measure of overall QOL that includes perceptions of one's health that may be impacted by prostate cancer. The scores range from 1- 6 and higher scores correspond to better health., 12 months
Although there are nearly 150,000 prostate cancer survivors in the VA, there has been little research to understand and improve survivorship care for this large population of Veterans. A substantial proportion of prostate cancer survivors in the general population have significant side effects from treatment (surgery or radiation therapy) that often persist for years, including incontinence, erectile dysfunction, and metabolic syndrome, all of which can contribute to decreased quality of life. The investigators' pilot data suggests that VA prostate cancer survivors experience similar or worse symptom burden to that of the general population of survivors. To address the need to improve patient-centered survivorship care management for Veterans with prostate cancer, the investigators propose a 4 year study with two aims: 1) to conduct a randomized controlled trial to compare a personally tailored automated telephone symptom management intervention for improving symptoms and symptom self-management to usual care. The investigators expect that those in the intervention group will have more confidence in symptom self-management and better symptom self-management and prostate cancer quality of life following the intervention, and that these outcomes will translate to more efficient use of services for these Veterans, and 2) to compare utilization of services among those in the intervention group to those in the control group.