Secretin-Stimulated Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (S-MRCP) in Pancreatic Patients
The aim of our study is to evaluate the utility of Secretin-Stimulated Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (S-MRCP) in detecting carcinoma and precancerous lesions in patients with a significant family history of pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Our hypothesis is that S-MRCP is superior to traditional computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in detecting early pancreatic neoplasms, and approaches the accuracy of endoscopic ultrasound (EUS).
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Synthetic Human Secretin|PROCEDURE: Secretin-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography|PROCEDURE: Secretin-Enhanced Endoscopic Ultrasound
S-MRCP and S-EUS Concordance, The primary outcome studied will be the concordance of S-MRCP and S-EUS. Screening will consist of two diagnostic imaging modalities. First, all patients will have S-MRCP in conjunction with contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). All images will be analyzed by a radiologist. Within thirty days, all patients will also undergo EUS with and without secretin enhancement (S-EUS).If the S-EUS shows abnormalities, EUS-guided fine-needle aspiration will be performed. The S-MRCP and EUS image findings will be classified as benign or suspicious/malignant to determine the concordance between imaging techniques.

Due to poor enrollment, inadequate data was collected for data analysis and therefore data analysis was not conducted. There is no data to report., Day 1 and up to 30 days after S-MRCP
The Positive Predictive Value of S-MRCP, The secondary outcome endpoints of our study will be positive predictive value of S-MRCP, in comparison with EUS/S-EUS and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), utilizing surgical pathology as the gold standard. In addition, we will also be looking at the utility of Cancer Antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9) and oral glucose tolerance tests.

Due to poor enrollment, inadequate data was collected for data analysis and therefore data analysis was not conducted. There is no data to report., Up to 1 year
Pancreatic cancer remains the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death in the United States, largely due to the lack of accurate and cost-effective screening methods. Initial screening efforts should be directed at patients with known increased genetic risk for pancreatic adenocarcinoma. About 10-20% of pancreatic cancers are considered familial or syndromic. Since pancreatic adenocarcinoma is known to progress from preneoplastic lesions, termed pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PanIN), it may eventually be possible to identify and cure patients by detecting preneoplastic lesions. Traditional radiological methods lack the resolution to detect early lesions. The sensitivity and specificity of endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) (92%,96%) and EUS (93-98%)are better, but these procedures are invasive and limited in availability. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) has emerged as a widely-accepted alternative with comparable sensitivity to ERCP. Magnetic Resonance Cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) has been further augmented by secretin stimulation, which improves visualization of the pancreatic duct as well as side branches. We will recruit 25 patients for a prospective pilot study examining S-MRCP as a screening technique in high-risk individuals. All recruited patients will undergo S-MRCP in conjunction with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), as well as secretin-enhanced EUS (S-EUS). Those patients with abnormalities on S-MRCP or S-EUS will undergo ERCP. If ERCP also shows abnormalities, these patients will be recommended total or subtotal pancreatectomy. The primary outcome that we will be studying will be concordance of S-MRCP and EUS. Secondarily, we will be measuring positive predictive value of S-MRCP, in comparison with EUS and ERCP in identifying neoplasm in those patients who undergo surgical resection during this study.