Study of Busulfan and FLAG Conditioning Regimen for Allogeneic Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of Busulfan/FLAG (fludarabine, cytarabine and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor) Conditioning Regimen in Patients with Relapsed/refractory Acute Leukemia undergoing allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation.
Leukemia
DRUG: Busulfan (Zhejiang Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd)|DRUG: Cytarabine(Actavis Italy S.p.A)|DRUG: Fludarabine (Bayer)|DRUG: granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (KirinKunpeng)|DRUG: rabbit ATG（Sanofi/Genzyme）
Number of participants relapse as assessed by NCCN (National Comprehensive Cancer Network )criteria, two years
Rate of Complete Remission as assessed by NCCN (National Comprehensive Cancer Network )criteria, 30 days|DFS(disease-free survival ), two years|TRM(treatment-related mortality ), two years|Number of participants with aGVHD as assessed by acute graft versus host disease grading criteria (refer to Glucksberg criteria), three months|Number of participants with Regimen-related adverse events as assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03, 30 days
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) is the only way to cure relapsed/refractory acute leukemia. Busulfan/Cyclophosphamide (BuCy, Cytarabine, Busulfan, Cyclophosphamide) has been a classical conditioning regimen for allo-SCT. Substitution of Cyclophosphamide in the BuCy regimen with Fludarabine (BuF) resulted in reduced toxicity and similar efficacy. FLAG (fludarabine, cytarabine and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor) is a chemotherapy regimen that has been proved to be effective for relapsed/refractory acute leukemia as salvage therapy. To reduce the relapse and improve the survival of those patients with relapsed/refractory acute leukemia who receive allo-SCT, the novel conditioning regimen consisting of Busulfan/FLAG was developed. The combination of Bu and FLAG without interval shortens the duration of conditioning and the pneutropenic period of the patient compared with successive administration of FLAG followed with BuF. In addition, regarding the established safety and efficacy of BuF and FLAG, it is reasonable to expect similar safety and enhanced antileukemic efficacy for Bu/FLAG compared with BuF. In this study, the safety and efficacy of this regimen in patients with relapsed/refractory acute leukemia undergoing allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation was investigated.