Vitamin C Plus Cordyceps to Chemotherapy Related Anemia in Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of low-dose vitamin C plus herbal medicine on improving the quality of life for metastatic pancreatic cancer patients receiving gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel chemotherapy.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Vitmain C plus herbal medicine
Rate of anemia, Rate of anemia after every cycle of chemotherapy, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
Rate of Grade 3 neuropathy, Rate of Grade 3 neuropathy after every cycle of chemotherapy, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Change of numeric rating scale, NRS, Change of NRS and the administration of analgesic drugs after every cycle of chemotherapy, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Quality of life, QOL, Change of QOL after every cycle of chemotherapy, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Overall survival，OS, OS of subjects from randomization to the time of death from any cause, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
Pancreatic cancer is a highly lethal malignancy with a 5-year survival less than 10%. Approximately 80% of patients with pancreatic cancer are diagnosed at an advanced stage. Chemotherapy is one of the major treatments for advanced pancreatic cancer. The MPACT trial has confirmed the efficacy of gemcitabine combined with nab-paclitaxel as the first-line treatment to metastatic pancreatic cancer. However, the side-effects related to gemcitabine combined with nab-paclitaxel including anemia, hand/foot numbness, fatigue, nausea, and malnutrition have impaired the tolerability of the regimen.

Vitamin C, also called ascorbate, is an essential nutrient for the human body. It modulates metabolism, immune reaction, collagen synthesis, and iron absorption. Some studies have shown that high-dose intravenous Vitamin C may be effective against various types of cancer. Meanwhile, medium or low dose of Vitamin C may enhance the tolerability of chemotherapy by increasing iron absorption, improving anemia, alleviating pain and hand/foot numbness, and thus improving quality of life for patients with pancreatic cancer. In addition, numerous evidence has proved the efficacy of Reishi and Cordyceps in alleviating the side effects related to chemotherapy.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of low-dose vitamin C plus herbal medicine (Reishi and Cordyceps) on improving the quality of life for metastatic pancreatic cancer patients receiving gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel chemotherapy. Fifty patients will be assigned to the experimental group (gemcitabine combined with nab-paclitaxel, Vitamin C, Reishi and Cordyceps). Rate of anemia, rate of hand/foot numbness, severity of pain, quality of life, and overall survival are measured.