Clinical Evaluation of 177Lu-DansyI-PSMA (LNC1011) in Patients With Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
Ten to 20% of patients with prostate cancer (PC) experience progression in their disease, even after undergoing pharmaceutical or surgical castration, leading to metastatic CRPC (mCRPC). Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is a membrane-bound glycoprotein mostly specific to the prostate. While PSMA is expressed at low levels in normal prostate, this expression increased by 100-1000-fold in PC, which makes it a favorable target for therapy. This study was designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of a long-lasting radiolabeled ligand 177Lu-Dansyl-PSMA in mCRPC patients.
Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer, mCRPC
DRUG: 177Lu-Dansyl-PSMA radioligand therapy
Incidence of treatment-related adverse events (safety and tolerability), Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0. Dose-limiting toxicity was defined as any 177Lu-Dansyl-PSMA-related AE ≥ grade 3 (G3)., At the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 42 days)|To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The MTD is the dose level below that which 2 out of 6 subjects in a cohort have DLT, At the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 42 days)
Dosimetry, Dosimetry, measured as absorbed dose in tumor and normal organs (Gy/GBq), was estimated in the first treatment cycle for each patient., At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 42 days)
This proposal is a phase I, open-label study of escalating doses of 177Lu-Dansyl-PSMA Injection in patients with PSMA-positive mCRPC. The initial dose of 177Lu-Dansyl-PSMA is 1.85GBq (50 mCi), and subsequent cohorts receive an incremental 50% dose increase until dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is observed. Treatment is planned for up to 2 cycles, and the time interval between cycles is 6 weeks. The primary endpoint assessed the safety and maximum tolerated dose of 177Lu-Dansyl-PSMA used for radioligand therapy in patients with PSMA-positive mCRPC. Secondary endpoints included dosimetry and determination of the preliminary treatment efficacy of 177Lu-Dansyl-PSMA.