Durvalumab And Radiation Therapy Followed by Adjuvant Durvalumab in Patients With Urothelial Cancer (T2-4 N0-2 M0) of the Bladder
This is an open label, multi-institutional, single arm study of a phase Ib study, followed by a phase II study of durvalumab with radiation therapy (RT) in patients with urothelial cancer (UC). No randomization or blinding is involved.
Urothelial Cancer
DRUG: durvalumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Phase Ib: Safety Assessment - Evaluation of DLT (Dose Limiting Toxicity) Rate, To assess the safety of combining durvalumab with RT in that DLT rate is lower than than 33% based on CTCAEv4.0, Begin W1 and every 2 chemotherapy cycles (2 weeks) thereafter, for up to 2 years or until unacceptable toxicity.|All Phases: Progression Free Survival Rate at 1 Year, Progression free survival rate at one year is defined as the probability that a patient remains free of progression of disease (SD+CR+PR) by modified RECIST 1.1 and cystoscopy at 1 year from the start of durvalumab treatment, D1 of durvaRT.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, From C1D1 to Progression or until death for 1 year|Phase II: Disease Control Rate to Concurrent durvaRT Followed by Durvalumab, The number of all subjects is reported with stable disease (SD) for 8 weeks, or partial response (PR), or complete response (CR) according to modified RECIST 1.1 and cystoscopy, from the start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the start of treatment).

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease(SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started;Disease Control Rate (DCR) = CR + PR+SD, From C1D1 until death or up to a maximum of 39 months.
All Phases: DCR Post Completion of Concurrent durvaRT, We will be determining the disease control rate, defined as percentage of patients achieving CR, PR, SD post completion of concurrent durvaRT. This will give us some preliminary evidence for efficacy of durvaRT combination.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease(SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started;Disease Control Rate (DCR) = CR + PR+SD, From C1D1 until death or up to a maximum of 39 months|All Phases : Median Progression Free Survival (PFS) Time, Median progression free survival will be determined for all subjects., From C1D1 to PD or until death or up to a maximum of 37 months.|Phase II: Complete Remission, Estimate the rate of CR is one of the secondary objectives for phase II part of this study. This will help us determine the actual effectiveness of durvaRT approach. CR will be determined with the help of imaging and cystoscopy post completion of durvaRT per modified RECIST 1.1.

Number of subjects reporting CR will be reported here. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions., From C1D1 until CR or death or up to a maximum of 39 months.|All Phases: Overall Survival, Estimate the overall survival (OS), defined as time from start of treatment, D1, to the date of death due to any cause. OS is defined, as time from start of treatment to the date of death due to any cause, or to the date of censoring at the last time the subject was known to be alive in intention-to-treat population. OS is one of the secondary objectives of this study. This is an immunotherapy based clinical trial and it is prudent to determine the OS to reflect the long-term benefit from this therapeutic approach., From C1D1 until death or 39 months.
OUTLINE: This is a multi-center study.

The phase Ib study will evaluate the safety of combining durvalumab with RT followed by adjuvant durvalumab. The phase II study will estimate the Progression Free Survival (PFS) and Disease Control Rate (DCR) with durvalumab plus RT followed by single agent durvalumab for patients with UC of bladder.

PHASE Ib INVESTIGATIONAL TREATMENT:

Cohort 1 will consist of up to 6 patients who will receive durvalumab 1500mg 2 doses Q4 weekly with RT to gross disease, 64.8 Gy, 36 fractions on weekdays over about 7 weeks. Durvalumab will be started on day 1; RT will be started on day 1 or 2.

Three patients will be enrolled initially. If 2 or more patients (out of 3) experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the combined treatment will be considered unsafe. Otherwise, an additional 3 patients will be treated at the same dose. If 0 or 1 patient experience DLT, the dose of durvalumab will be deemed safe for phase 2 part of the study. If, however, 2 or more patients (out of 6) experience DLT, the combined treatment will be considered unsafe.

Post-concurrent durvalumab and RT, single agent durvalumab will be given1500mg every 4 weeks (±7 days) for a total period of up to 12 months. Adjuvant durvalumab treatment will be started 3-4 weeks post completion of durvalumab and RT.

PHASE II INVESTIGATIONAL TREATMENT:

Subjects will receive durvalumab 1500mg 2 doses Q4 weekly with RT to gross disease, 64.8 Gy, 36 fractions on weekdays over about 7 weeks. Durvalumab will start on Day 1. RT to start on Day 1 or 2.

Post-concurrent durvalumab and RT, single agent durvalumab will be given1500mg every 4 weeks (±7 days) for a total period of up to 12 months. Adjuvant durvalumab monotherapy will be started 3-4 weeks post completion of durvalumab and RT.

Life expectancy of \>6 months per treating physician.

Adequate organ and marrow function as defined below:

1. Hemoglobin ≥ 9.0 g/dL
2. Absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 1.5 x 10\^9/L (\> 1500 per mm\^3)
3. Platelet count ≥ 100 x 10\^9/L (\>100,000 per mm\^3)
4. Serum bilirubin ≤ 1.5 x institutional upper limit of normal (ULN). This will not apply to subjects with confirmed Gilbert's syndrome (persistent or recurrent hyperbilirubinemia that is predominantly unconjugated in the absence of hemolysis or hepatic pathology), who will be allowed only in consultation with their physician.
5. AST (SGOT)/ALT (SGPT) ≤ 2.5 x institutional upper limit of normal unless liver metastases are present, in which case it must be ≤ 5x ULN.
6. Serum creatinine CL\>30 mL/min by the Cockcroft-Gault formula (Cockcroft and Gault 1976) or by 24-hour urine collection for determination of creatinine clearance: