Effect of Bra Use During Radiotherapy for Breast Cancer Radiotherapy
This prospective randomized study investigated the reproducibility of breast shape, radiation dose irradiated to the lungs, heart, dose distribution, patient satisfaction, and treatment toxicity when wearing and not wearing a bra during radiotherapy for patients with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Radiation Therapy
DEVICE: Group wearing a radiotherapy bra
The reproducibility of breast shape through cross-correlation values, both with and without the use of a bra, Evaluating the reproducibility of breast shape through cross-correlation values in cone-beam CT and planning CT matching. This study involves comparing groups of patients wearing and not wearing a bra, During the radiotherapy, an average of 1 month
Radiation dosimetric evaluation, radiation dose to lungs, heart and breast, at the time of completion of radiotherapy|Patient satisfaction assessment, 1. Survey on anxiety before and after radiation treatment (using STAI, APAIS, and LASA scales)
2. Survey on satisfaction with radiotherapy bra after radiation therapy, at the time of completion of radiotherapy|Assessment of treatment toxicity, 1. Acute toxicity grade 2 or higher according to CTCAE version 5.0
2. Late toxicity grade 2 or higher according to CTCAE version 5.0, at 6 months and 12 months after the radiotherapy
Post-surgery radiotherapy to the breast is standard treatment after breast-conserving surgery in patients with breast cancer. In order to apply the latest radiation therapy technologies, such as intensity-modulated radiotherapy, it is important to maintain the correct posture. However, due to the nature of the breast made of soft tissue, it is difficult to maintain the same breast shape during each treatment. This is especially difficult for large, ptotic breasts. Accordingly, we developed a bra for breast cancer patients in order to perform accurate radiotherapy. It was designed to fix the breast using bands in various directions so that its shape and position can be fixed during radiation treatment.

This is a prospective, randomized controlled study to evaluate the effects of using a bra for breast cancer patients on the reproducibility of breast shape, radiation dose irradiated to the lungs, heart, dose distribution, patient satisfaction, and treatment toxicity.