Lapatinib and Radiation for Stage III-IV Head and Neck Cancer Patients Who Cannot Tolerate Concurrent Chemotherapy
We propose to combine lapatinib with RT alone in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer who cannot tolerate chemotherapy. The main objective of the study is to determine the efficacy of combining concurrent radiation and lapatinib in terms of time-to-progression (TTP) in this group of patients. In addition, we will determine the 2-year locoregional control rate (LRC), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in these patients. We will also evaluate the profile and frequency of late toxicity, specifically mucosal and dermatologic toxicity, of the combination of lapatinib and RT in patients with locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
Head and Neck Cancer|Carcinoma, Squamous Cell|Head and Neck Cancers
DRUG: Lapatinib|PROCEDURE: Radiotherapy (radiation)|DEVICE: G.E. Healthcare 1.5T MR, systems revision 12.0 M5|DEVICE: DCE-MRI
Progression Free Survival, To determine the efficacy of combining lapatinib and radiotherapy in terms of Progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with locally advanced HNSCC who cannot tolerate concurrent chemoradiotherapy.

Progression-free survival is defined is the time from starting treatment to the time of first documented tumor progression or death due to any cause, which ever occurs first.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST V1.0) as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 2 year PFS: PFS at 2 yrs after study enrollment
Overall Survival., Overall survival is the time from starting treatment until death due to any cause. For subjects who do not die, time to death will be censored at the time of last contact., Two years survival rate after study enrollment
There is substantial data to suggest that EGFR and Her-2/neu expressions are important predictors for prognosis in HNSCC. EGFR blockade with a monoclonal antibody in conjunction with radiotherapy has been shown to improve survival over radiotherapy alone in patients with locally advanced HNSCC. Dual inhibition of EGFR and ErbB2 tyrosine kinases results in greater inhibitory effect of the downstream signaling pathways in cancer cells than inhibition of either receptor alone. Phase I studies in HNSCC suggested that the drug is well tolerated when delivered either alone or concurrently with cisplatin based chemoradiotherapy in HNSCC.

We propose to combine lapatinib with RT alone in patients with locally advanced HNSCC who cannot tolerate chemotherapy. The main objective of the study is to determine the efficacy of combining concurrent radiation and lapatinib in terms of time-to-progression (TTP) in this group of patients. In addition, we will determine the 2-year locoregional control rate (LRC), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in these patients. We will also evaluate the profile and frequency of late toxicity, specifically mucosal and dermatologic toxicity, of the combination of lapatinib and RT in patients with locally advanced HNSCC.