Proton Beam Re-Irradiation in Thoracic Cancers
This pilot clinical trial studies proton beam radiation therapy in treating patients with thoracic cancer that has come back and have received prior radiation therapy. Proton beam radiation therapy uses high energy protons to kill tumor cells and may cause less damage to normal tissue.
Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Lung|Recurrent Disease|Thoracic Neoplasm
RADIATION: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy
Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Greater Toxicity Attributable to Radiation Treatment, Toxicity will be graded based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Grade 3 generally means hospitalization required for management of side effects., Up to 3 months post-treatment
Number of Participants With Grade 2 Toxicity Attributable to Radiation Treatment, Toxicity will be graded based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 4.0. Grade 2 generally means medical therapy required to intervene due to toxicity., Up to 3 months post-treatment|Number of Participants With Local Control of Cancer, Number of participants who did not have local failure as defined by: tumor progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria - at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions inside the full dose radiation field., Up to 3 months post-treatment|Number of Participants Alive, Number of participants alive., Up to 3 months post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the grade 3 toxicity associated with thoracic re-irradiation with proton therapy, with prospectively applied normal organ radiation dose limits.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of thoracic re-irradiation with proton therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo proton beam radiation therapy per standard of care.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months.