Ultrasound Guided Stellate Ganglion Block in Postural Tachycardia Syndrome
This single-center study aims to evaluate both immediate and long-term outcomes of stellate ganglion block (SGB) in a cohort of rigorously phenotyped patients with Postural Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS). By assessing the effects of SGB, this study seeks to determine its viability as an intervention for symptom control in POTS.
Postural Tachycardia Syndrome
PROCEDURE: Stellate ganglion block|PROCEDURE: Sham injection of saline|DRUG: Ropivacaine|DRUG: Normal saline
COMPASS 31 total score, The change in Composite Autonomic Symptom Score 31 (COMPASS-31) from baseline to first follow-up visit. The COMPASS-31 scale measures autonomic dysfunctions through 31 patient-reported questions. A higher score indicates worse autonomic dysfunction., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)
Magnitude of postural tachycardia, Change in magnitude of postural tachycardia (a heart rate increase within the first 10 minutes of standing) from baseline to first and second follow up visit., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|Heart rate variability (HRV), Change in heart rate variability (HRV) metrics (time and frequency domains) from baseline to first and second follow up visit, Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|Plasma catecholamine levels, Measure the change in plasma catecholamine levels from baseline to first follow up visit, Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention)|Survey of Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome Symptoms (SPOTS), SPOTS evaluates the frequency and severity of common POTS symptoms, The higher the score, the greater the symptom burden. A reduction in SPOTS score suggests clinical improvement. SPOTS scores at 1st and 2nd FU are compared to baseline SPOTS scores., Baseline (within 1 week before study intervention) to 1-2 weeks, then 12 weeks following study intervention|VOSS score, Change in VOSS score at 1st and 2nd FU compared to baseline. The Vanderbilt Orthostatic Symptom Score (VOSS) is a tool used to assess and track the severity of symptoms associated with postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS). It helps quantify a patient's symptom burden by having them rate the severity of 9 symptoms (mental clouding, blurred vision, shortness of breath, rapid heartbeat, tremulousness, chest discomfort, headache, lightheadedness, and nausea) on a scale of 0 to 10, where 0 indicates no symptoms., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|FSS score, Change in FSS score at 1st and 2nd FU compared to baseline. The Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS) is a questionnaire used to measure the severity of fatigue and its impact on daily activities. It's a 9-item scale where respondents rate their agreement with statements about fatigue using a 7-point scale, with 1 being "strongly disagree" and 7 being "strongly agree". The total FSS score is calculated by summing the responses, with a higher score indicating greater fatigue severity., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|PROMIS Cognitive Function Short Form 6a, Change in the PROMIS Cognitive Function Short Form 6a score at 1st and 2nd FU compared to baseline. Short Form 6a is a six-item sub-set scale of the PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Cognitive Function item bank that assesses patient-perceived cognitive deficits. The questions use a 5-point response scale, ranging from "Not at all" to "Very much". A higher score generally indicates better perceived cognitive ability., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|EQ-5D score, Change in EQ-5D score at 1st and 2nd FU compared to baseline. The EQ-5D is a questionnaire for measuring patient-reported outcomes which assesses health-related quality of life across five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. The EQ-5D index score ranges from 0 to 1, where 1 represents perfect health, 0 represents a state as bad as death, and values between 0 and 1 represent different levels of health, with higher values indicating better health., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|PGI-C rating, The PGI-C (Patient Global Impression of Change) is a 7-point scale used to assess a patient's perceived change in their health or condition after an intervention. A rating of 1 indicates "very much improved," while a rating of 7 indicates "very much worse". It's a self-reported measure that reflects a patient's belief about the efficacy of treatment., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|CGI-C rating, The Clinical Global Impression of Change (CGI-C) is a scale used to assess the clinical change or improvement in a patient's condition over time. CGI-C scores range from 1 (very much improved) through to 7 (very much worse)., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|BAI score, Reduction in anxiety and depression symptoms as measured by the BAI score. Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) is a 21-item self-report questionnaire designed to assess the severity of anxiety symptoms. Each item is rated on a 4-point scale (0 = not at all to 3 = severely). The total score ranges from 0 to 63. Higher scores indicate greater severity of anxiety symptoms., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|BDI score, Reduction in anxiety and depression symptoms as measured by the BDI score. Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) is a 21-question multiple-choice self-report inventory for measuring the severity of depression. The total score ranges from 0 to 63. Higher total scores indicate more severe depressive symptoms., Baseline (1 week before study intervention), first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention) and second follow-up (12 weeks after the intervention)|Adrenergic G-protein-coupled receptor autoantibody activity, Measure the change in adrenergic G-protein-coupled receptor autoantibody concentrations from baseline to first follow up visit from stored serum samples., Baseline (1 week before study intervention) and first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention)|Inflammatory markers (IL1, IL6, IL8, TNF), Measure the change in inflammatory markers concentrations (IL1, IL6, IL8, TNF) from baseline to first follow up visit from stored serum samples, Baseline (1 week before study intervention) and first follow-up (1-2 weeks after the intervention)|Horner's syndrome, Proportion of patients achieving Horner's syndrome post-SGB as a measure of block success, Within 10 minutes after the procedure|Facial skin temperature, Measure the change in facial skin temperature (C°) post-procedure, Within 10 minutes after the procedure|Facial sweating, Sweat testing will be performed following the procedure. The patient is coated with a moisture-sensitive powder that changes color following the increase in facial blood flow following the intervention., Within 10 minutes after the procedure
Postural Tachycardia Syndrome (POTS) is a heterogeneous condition affecting approximately 0.2% of the global population, predominantly young women of childbearing age. It is characterized by significant functional impairment and a constellation of symptoms, including lightheadedness, cognitive dysfunction, blurred vision, irritability, palpitations, and chest discomfort, which occur upon standing and improve when lying down. Although current pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatments alleviate symptoms for some patients, many remain significantly disabled. These challenges highlight the urgent need for novel treatment strategies, particularly non-pharmacological approaches.

This study is a randomized controlled trial with a control group. The study team will enroll 20 patients with POTS, assigning 10 to the intervention group and 10 to the control group.

The goal of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness of SGB in improving heart rate, markers of sympathetic hyperactivity, and POTS symptoms comparing to a sham saline injection.