Sintilimab Plus Bevacizumab in Recurrent/Persistent Ovarian Clear Cell Carcinoma
Ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC) is one of the rare subtypes of ovarian cancer, yet its prognosis is extremely poor. Previous studies indicate that both bevacizumab and PD-1 inhibitor have clinical benefits for OCCC patients. And the combination of bevacizumab and PD-1 inhibitor has shown preliminary safety and clinical activity. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the potential benefit of combination therapy for patients with OCCC.
Ovarian Clear Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Sintilimab|DRUG: Bevacizumab Biosimilar IBI305
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with complete response(CR) and partial response(PR) assessed by the investigator in accordance with the RECIST 1.1 criteria., Up to 3 years
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from enrollment to the first imaging disease progression or death (whichever occurs first). Assessed according to RECIST v1.1 by investigator., Up to 3 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is defined as the time from the first administration to the first CR or PR recorded. Assessed according to RECIST v1.1 by investigator., Up to 2 years|Duration of remission (DOR), DOR is defined as the time interval from the first record of disease response to disease progression or death (whichever occurs first). Assessed according to RECIST v1.1 by investigator., Up to 3 years|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of the patients with complete response, partial remission, and stable disease after treatment. Assessed according to RECIST v1.1 by investigator., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time between enrollment and the patient's death due to any cause., Up to 5 years|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Safety includes the adverse event profile of sintilimab and bevacizumab according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 3 years|Quality of life assessment of patients, Quality of life will be assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O) and other scales as appropriate., Quality of life will be assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O)
Ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC) is one of the rare subtypes of ovarian cancer, yet its prognosis is extremely poor. Previous studies indicate that both bevacizumab and PD-1 inhibitor have clinical benefits for OCCC patients. And the combination of bevacizumab and PD-1 inhibitor has shown preliminary safety and clinical activity. Therefore, this study aims to investigate the potential benefit of combination therapy for patients with OCCC.