Colorectal Metastasis Prevention International Trial 2
The short perioperative period (days to weeks around surgery) is characterized by stress-inflammatory responses, including catecholamines (CAs, e.g., adrenaline) and prostaglandins (PGs, e.g., prostaglandin-E2) release, and induce deleterious pro-metastatic effects. Animal studies implicated excess perioperative release of CAs and PGs in facilitating cancer progression by affecting the malignant tissue, its local environment, and anti-metastatic immune functions. Congruently, animal studies conducted by the investigators indicate that combined use of the beta-adrenergic blocker, propranolol, and the prostaglandins inhibitor, etodolac - but neither drug separately - efficiently prevented post-operative metastatic development. Two recently conducted clinical trials, conducted by the investigators, in three medical centers in Israel, recruiting breast (n=38) and colorectal (n=34) cancer patients, assessing the safety and short-term efficacy of perioperative propranolol and etodolac treatment. Drugs were well tolerated, without severe adverse events. Importantly, molecular/biological analyses of the excised primary tumor indicated that drug treatment caused promising anti-metastatic transformations, as well as improvements in immune and inflammatory indices. These included (i) decreased tumor cell capacity to migrate, (ii) reduced pro-metastatic capacity of the malignant tissue, and (iii) improvement in immune infiltrating into the tumor (Paper published in Clinical Cancer Research, 2017). Herein, the investigators propose to conduct a double-blind placebo-controlled two-arm Phase II clinical trial in 200 colorectal cancer patients undergoing curative surgery in Israel. A perioperative 20-day drug treatment will be initiated 5 days before surgery. Primary outcomes will include (i) 3-year disease-free-survival (DFS), and 5-year overall survival (OS); and (ii) biological markers in blood samples, and in the excised tumor tissue. Secondary outcomes will include safety indices and psychological measures of depression, anxiety, distress, and fatigue
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Propranolol and etodolac|OTHER: Placebo
5-year disease-free-survival, Data regrading post-surgical recurrence will be recorded at 1,3,6,12,18,24,36,48, and 60 following surgery. Primary outcome 1 will be rate of recurrence/disease at 60 months., From the date of surgery until malignant disease is identified, assessed up to 60 months post-surgery]|Biomarkers in extracted tumor tissue samples assessing pro- and anti-metastatic processes, Epithelial-to-mesenchymal-transition ( EMT) status and natural-killer cell, macrophage, T-cell, and B-cell infiltration levels into tumor tissue (as assessed by messenger RNA profiling of tissue samples, An average of one year following surgery|Biomarkers in blood samples assessing pro- and anti-metastatic processes, Cytokine levels in blood samples (interleukin-6, interleukin-10, C-reactive protein, interferon-gamma, and vascular endothelial growth factor and additional exploratory analysis of other cytokines), An average of one year following surgery
Number of patients with treatment related adverse events, According to the Clavien-Dindo classification system (7 grades of events depicting the severity of the event), 30 days following surgery|Depression, Anxiety, Global distress, Assessed by changes on the brief symptom inventory 18 questionnaire (this questionnaire assess all three scales for depression, anxiety and global distress), At baseline and at 30 days post-surgery|Fatigue, 4 items related to fatigue in the 36 item short-form survey questionnaire., At baseline and at 30 days post-surgery
The short perioperative period (days to weeks around surgery) is characterized by stress-inflammatory responses, including catecholamines (CAs, e.g., adrenaline) and prostaglandins (PGs, e.g., prostaglandin-E2) release, and induce deleterious pro-metastatic effects. Animal studies implicated excess perioperative release of CAs and PGs in facilitating cancer progression by affecting the malignant tissue, its local environment, and anti-metastatic immune functions. Congruently, animal studies conducted by the investigators indicate that combined use of the beta-adrenergic blocker, propranolol, and the prostaglandins inhibitor, etodolac - but neither drug separately - efficiently prevented post-operative metastatic development. Two recently conducted clinical trials, conducted by the investigators, in three medical centers in Israel, recruiting breast (n=38) and colorectal (n=34) cancer patients, assessing the safety and short-term efficacy of perioperative propranolol and etodolac treatment. Drugs were well tolerated, without severe adverse events. Importantly, molecular/biological analyses of the excised primary tumor indicated that drug treatment caused promising anti-metastatic transformations, as well as improvements in immune and inflammatory indices. These included (i) decreased tumor cell capacity to migrate, (ii) reduced pro-metastatic capacity of the malignant tissue, and (iii) improvement in immune infiltrating into the tumor (Paper published in Clinical Cancer Research, 2017). Herein, the investigators propose to conduct a double-blind placebo-controlled two-arm Phase II clinical trial in 200 colorectal cancer patients undergoing curative surgery in Israel. A perioperative 20-day drug treatment will be initiated 5 days before surgery. Primary outcomes will include (i) 3-year disease-free-survival (DFS), and 5-year overall survival (OS); and (ii) biological markers in blood samples, and in the excised tumor tissue. Secondary outcomes will include safety indices and psychological measures of depression, anxiety, distress, and fatigue