Phase 1 Study of Intradermal LV305 in Patients With Locally Advanced, Relapsed or Metastatic Cancer Expressing NY-ESO-1
This is a Phase 1 multi-center study to evaluate the clinical safety and immune response of ID-LV305 when injected intradermally in patients with advanced cancer. ID-LV305 is a novel immunotherapy agent designed to target dendritic cells and stimulate the body's immune system to fight the spread and growth of cancer for patients whose tumors express the NY-ESO-1 protein. Patients with melanoma, sarcoma, ovarian cancer, or small cell lung cancer that express NY-ESO-1 may be considered for the trial. Selected sites will be evaluating ID-LV305 with pembrolizumab for patients with melanoma who have inadequately responded to anti-PD-1 therapy.
Melanoma - Currently Enrolling|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer - Enrollment Completed|Sarcoma - Enrollment Completed
BIOLOGICAL: ID-LV305
Safety and tolerability, Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events \[Safety and Tolerability\]., Up to 5 years after first study vaccine injection.
Immunogenicity, Measure changes from baseline in anti-NY-ESO-1 serum antibodies and anti-LV antibodies and changes from baseline in peripheral blood of NY-ESO-1 specific CD4+, CD8+, Teff and Treg cells., Approximately 12 weeks
ID-LV305 is an agent designed to specifically target dendritic cells within the patient and induce them to stimulate and generate cytotoxic T cell responses against the NY-ESO-1 protein, a molecule which is often expressed in certain types of cancer cells. This is a first in human study of ID-LV305. The primary purpose of the study is to determine what dose ID-LV305 can be given safely to patients with advanced cancers that express NY-ESO-1 protein. ID-LV305 will be administered by intradermal injection every three weeks times four doses. The study will have two phases. In Part 1, Dose Escalation, which has been completed, three sequentially enrolled cohorts of patients were treated at one of four dose levels of ID-LV305 using a standard escalation design. Followed by Part 2 expansion where an additional 27 subjects were enrolled. In Part 2SA, Site-specific Amendment, patients with unresectable and/or metastatic melanoma with an inadequate response to anti-PD-1 MAb therapy, defined as SD or PD using RECIST criteria following at least 2 months of therapy. Patients with PD have a tumor measurement increase of \<2-fold from the time of starting anti-PD-1 therapy, must not be symptomatic or have worsening of Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status due to their disease progression, and cannot have new CNS lesion. Patients must also meet the lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH), ECOG status, and no tumor size criteria are used in Part 2SA.