Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Ganitumab in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Metastatic Ewing Sarcoma
This randomized phase III trial studies how well combination chemotherapy with or without ganitumab works in treating patients with newly diagnosed Ewing sarcoma that has spread to other parts of the body. Treatment with drugs that block the IGF-1R pathway, such as ganitumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vincristine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, ifosfamide, and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether adding ganitumab to combination chemotherapy is more effective in treating patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.
Metastatic Ewing Sarcoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone Marrow|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Lung|Metastatic Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor of Bone|Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor of Soft Tissues
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Etoposide Phosphate|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Ganitumab|DRUG: Ifosfamide|RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Surgical Procedure|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Event-free Survival, Estimated 5-year EFS where EFS is calculated as the time from study enrollment to disease progression, disease relapse, occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm, death from any cause or last follow-up whichever occurs first. Kaplan-Meier method is used for estimation. Patients without an event are censored at last contact., 5 years after enrollment
Overall Survival, Time from study enrollment to death or last patient contact., 5 years after enrollment|Frequency of Toxicity-events, The number of induction or consolidation reporting periods in which a CTC version 4 codeable grade 4 or greater non-hematological adverse event, grade 3 or greater left ventricular systolic dysfunction or the reporting period is terminated because of a CTC codeable event., Up to 202 days
Serum IGF Pathway Component and Tissue Protein, Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA), and Ribonucleic Acid Markers, In addition to the log rank test the modeling approach will be used for the primary study comparison. Linear trend in EFS-risk will be investigated by segregating the marker level according to quartiles. For bone marrow response rate analyses, Fisher's exact test will be used to compare the objective bone marrow response rate (complete response vs. incomplete response) at start of local control between patients with biomarker levels above and below the group median., Up to 10 years|Tumor Cell Surface IGF-1R Expression, Extent of tumor cell IGF-1R co-expression will also be reported. Change in tumor cell IGF-1R co-expression in patients treated with and without ganitumab will be reported descriptively., Up to 307 days|Germline Polymorphisms in EGFR, EFS will be compared between patients with and without the presence of the minor allele using the log rank test, both for the entire patient population and for patients randomized to ganitumab., Up to 10 years|EWS Translocation, The institutional result of EWS tumor testing will be categorized as translocation detected (yes v. no) and the type of translocation detected will also be recorded. The proportion of patients with a particular EWS translocation variant will be tabulated., Up to 10 years|Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA) Testing, Will report the proportion of patients that have a change in translocation result associated with ctDNA testing across time periods., Up to 202 days|Serial Genomic Profiling, Will be identified by flow cytometry. Profiles will be presented graphically, and samples obtained from different sites of tumor within the same individual will also be presented., Up to 307 days|Occurrence of Sinusoidal Obstructive Disease (SOS) Associated With the Addition of Ganitumab to VDC/IE, The number of induction and maintenance cycles received by patients randomized to the experimental therapy where SOS is observed. Only patients who receive all reporting period therapy or experience SOS will contribute to this outcome measure., Up to 202 days|Frequency of Resolution of Bone Marrow Metastases, The number of patients who are enrolled with bone marrow metastases whose bone marrow disease is not detected after evaluation at the time of of first local control measure or the end of the Induction reporting period, whichever comes first. Only eligible patients who receive at least one dose of randomized treatment assignment will be considered for this measure., Up to 84 days|Frequency of Toxicity Events During Ganitumab Maintenance, The number of induction or consolidation reporting periods in which a CTC version 4 codeable non-hematological adverse event, grade 3 left ventricular systolic dysfunction or the reporting period is terminated because of a CTC codeable event., Up to 307 days|Trough Levels of Serum Ganitumab, Trough levels of serum ganitumab prior to the second dose of ganitumab during induction obtained will be categorized as less than 10 micrograms per milliliter or greater than or equal to 10 micrograms per milliliter. This analysis will be conducted for the first 10 eligible patients who receive ganitumab., Up to 15 days|Proportion of Patients Who Successfully Receive Planned Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT), A patient who has SBRT planned for at least one metastatic site and receives successful SBRT treatment to at least 85% of metastatic sites in the treatment plan. Successful treatment is determined by IROC review criteria. Only eligible patients start the metastatic site radiation reporting period will be considered for this outcome measure., 202 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if event-free survival (EFS) in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma treated with multiagent chemotherapy is improved with the addition of ganitumab (AMG 479).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicity of the addition of ganitumab to multimodality therapy for patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

II. To compare overall survival in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma treated with multiagent chemotherapy with and without the addition of ganitumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare bone marrow response rates in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma treated with multiagent chemotherapy with and without the addition of ganitumab.

II. To describe the toxicity of 6 months of ganitumab monotherapy as maintenance therapy following multimodality therapy in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

III. To describe trough levels of ganitumab in a cohort of patients with Ewing sarcoma \< 21 years of age treated with 18 mg/kg.

IV. To describe the feasibility of and local failure rates following hypofractionated stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) directed at bone metastases in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

V. To determine if EFS, overall survival, bone marrow response rates, and toxicity differ based on serum markers of the insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) pathway in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma treated with interval compressed chemotherapy with and without the addition of ganitumab.

VI. To determine if EFS, overall survival, and bone marrow response rates differ based on protein, deoxyribose nucleic acid (DNA), and ribonucleic acid (RNA) marker in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma treated with interval compressed chemotherapy with and without the addition of ganitumab.

VII. To evaluate bone marrow micrometastatic disease and tumor cell surface IGF-1R expression at diagnosis and after 3 and 6 cycles of study therapy in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

VIII. To determine if the presence of germline polymorphisms in EGFR correlate with response to multiagent therapy with and without ganitumab.

IX. To investigate the ability of fludeoxyglucose F 18-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) to augment conventional response assessment of primary Ewing sarcoma tumors by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

X. To explore FDG-PET response at the primary tumor as a prognostic marker and as a predictive biomarker of clinical activity of IGF-1R inhibition in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic Ewing sarcoma.

XI. To collect data on institutional testing for Ewing sarcoma breakpoint region 1 (EWSR1) translocation status in patients enrolling on study.

XII. To explore the capacity of plasma cell-free DNA analysis to detect tumor-specific genetic changes at initial diagnosis and after initiation of protocol therapy.

XIII. To collect a population of bone marrow metastatic tumor cells by flow cytometry for genomic profiling.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment regimens. (As of 3/20/2019, the study is closed to accrual and patients in Regimen B no longer receive ganitumab.)

REGIMEN A (vincristine sulfate, doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide \[VDC\] and ifosfamide and etoposide phosphate \[IE\]):

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) over 1 minute on day 1, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2, and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of weeks 1, 5, and 9, and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 to 5 and etoposide phosphate IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 to 5 of weeks 3, 7, and 11.

LOCAL CONTROL THERAPY: Between weeks 13-18, patients undergo surgery and/or radiation therapy.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on day 1 of weeks 1, 7, 9, and 13; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2 of weeks 1 and 7, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of weeks 1, 7, 9, and 13, ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 to 5 of weeks 3, 5, 11, and 15, and etoposide phosphate IV over 1-2 hours on days 1 to 5 of weeks 3, 5, 11, and 15.

METASTATIC SITE IRRADIATION: Patients with lung metastases undergo whole lung radiation and patients with bone metastases undergo definitive SBRT or external beam radiation therapy (EBRT).

REGIMEN B (VDC/IE + ganitumab):

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive Induction therapy as in Regimen A and receive ganitumab IV over 30-60 minutes or 60-120 minutes on day 1 of weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11.

LOCAL CONTROL THERAPY: Between weeks 13-18, patients undergo surgery and/or radiation therapy.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive Consolidation therapy as in Regimen A and receive ganitumab IV over 30-60 minutes or 60-120 minutes on day 1 of weeks 7, 9, 11, 13, and 15.

METASTATIC SITE IRRADIATION: Patients with lung metastases undergo whole lung radiation and patients with bone metastases undergo definitive SBRT or EBRT.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive ganitumab IV over 30-60 minutes or 60-120 minutes every 3 weeks for 8 cycles.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 10 years.