Clinical Validation of a Predictive Model for the Presence of Cervical Lymph Node Metastasis in Papillary Thyroid Cancer
This research study is performed to compare the accuracy of two methods of lymph node evaluation: research method versus standard method. Standard method is what is usually performed as standard of care where the radiologist evaluates the images overall and decides whether each node seen should or should not be biopsied. In the research method, a second radiologist will evaluate the ultrasound images of the lymph nodes separately, and use a small specific checklist of ultrasound appearance to determine whether each node should or should not be biopsied. Results of both the standard and research method will be used to decide which node(s), if any should be biopsied. Neck ultrasound examination, lymph node evaluation by standard method and subsequent lymph node biopsy are part of the standard clinical care. It is less likely but possible that the research method may identify additional lymph nodes for biopsy to check if that lymph node contains thyroid cancer.
Papillary Thyroid Cancer
Detection of lymph node metastasis in a patient with Papillary Thyroid Cancer by neck ultrasound by radiologist's standard assessment method (Ir test)., 6 months|Detection of lymph node metastasis in a patient with Papillary Thyroid Cancer by neck ultrasound by predictive model method (Im test)., 6 months
Confirmation of the lymph node metastasis by fine needle aspiration biopsy prior to the surgery., 6 months|Measure true positive and false positive results of Ir test and Im test for comparison., 6 months
This research study is performed to compare the accuracy of two methods of lymph node evaluation: research method versus standard method. Standard method is what is usually performed as standard of care where the radiologist evaluates the images overall and decides whether each node seen should or should not be biopsied. In the research method, a second radiologist will evaluate the ultrasound images of the lymph nodes separately, and use a small specific checklist of ultrasound appearance to determine whether each node should or should not be biopsied. Results of both the standard and research method will be used to decide which node(s), if any should be biopsied. Neck ultrasound examination, lymph node evaluation by standard method and subsequent lymph node biopsy are part of the standard clinical care. It is less likely but possible that the research method may identify additional lymph nodes for biopsy to check if that lymph node contains thyroid cancer.