Combination Niraparib and Dostarlimab Therapy for Recurrent or Persistent Uterine Serous Carcinoma
This phase II trial tests how well niraparib and dostarlimab work in treating patients with uterine serous carcinoma that has come back (after a period of improvement) (recurrent) and remains despite treatment (persistent). Niraparib belongs to a class of drugs called PARP inhibitors that prevent cancer cells from growing. Dostarlimab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Dostarlimab belongs to a class of drugs called PD-1 inhibitors that uses the patient's own immune system to treat cancer (immuno-therapy). Giving niraparib and dostarlimab may work better in treating patients with uterine serous carcinoma.
Recurrent Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Dostarlimab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Niraparib
Overall response rate, Defined as the percentage of patients with complete response (CR), or partial response (PR), as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v.) 1.1 criteria using investigator's review. Will be estimated and reported with 95% confidence intervals (exact)., Up to 2 years
Clinical benefit rate, Clinical benefit rate (CR, PR, or stable disease \[SD\]) by RECIST v1.1 will be also estimated and reported with 95% confidence interval (exact)., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be analyzed by Kaplan-Meier (KM) methods, and point estimates and 2-sided 95% confidence intervals for PFS will be reported for selected times such as 3, 6 and 12 months from treatment start using Greenwood's variance and the log-log transform method. Median PFS time, if attained, will also be reported., From the date of study entry until disease progression or death (whichever occurs first), assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be analyzed by KM methods. Median OS time, if attained, will also be reported., Up to 2 years|Duration of response (DoR), DoR will be evaluated by restricted mean DoR., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Toxicity will be summarized by reporting the number of patients treated, the number who experience treatment related toxicity, serious adverse events and grade 3 or higher AE, the number of patients who discontinue therapy, and the reasons for discontinuation. Comprehensive safety data on all grade 3 and 4 toxicities will be tabulated by type, grade, and duration., Up to 90 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy, as measured by confirmed overall response rate (ORR) (partial and complete response, PR/CR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST version \[v\]1.1) based on investigator assessment of the combination niraparib and dostarlimab in patients with recurrent or persistent uterine serous carcinoma (USC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the progression-free survival (PFS). II. Estimate clinical benefit rate (CBR), defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD).

III. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of niraparib and dostarlimab combination.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. Biomarker evaluation to predict response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive dostarlimab intravenously (IV) and niraparib orally (PO) on study. Patients also undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/computed tomography (CT) and collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter.