An Observational Time and Motion Study of Trastuzumab Subcutaneous (SC) and Intravenous (IV) Formulations in Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2)-Positive Early Breast Cancer (EBC)
This prospective, non-interventional time and motion study will evaluate the costs of healthcare resource utilization associated with the administration of trastuzumab (Herceptin) SC and IV formulations in HER2-positive EBC. This is a sub-study of the clinical study MO22982 (NCT01401166/PrefHer).
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab
Monetary Cost of Health Care Resources Used Per Episode of Care in Administration of Trastuzumab Single-Use Injection Device, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time was estimated using hourly salary data from National Health Service (NHS) reference costs. Consumable supplies were costed using hospital pharmacy data and online sources. Analysis was limited to only those items with an individual cost of £0.05 or more. Monetary cost of health care resources was determined by adding the costs of consumable supplies and HCP time spent in the administration of trastuzumab single-use injection device during a single episode of care. The average monetary cost per episode was calculated and expressed in pounds., Data collection up to 1 year|Monetary Cost of Health Care Resources Used Per Episode of Care in Administration of Trastuzumab SC Injection, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time was estimated using hourly salary data from NHS reference costs. Consumable supplies were costed using hospital pharmacy data and online sources. Analysis was limited to only those items with an individual cost of £0.05 or more. Monetary cost of health care resources was determined by adding the costs of consumable supplies and HCP time spent in the administration of trastuzumab SC injection during a single episode of care. The average monetary cost per episode was calculated and expressed in pounds., Data collection up to 1 year
Monetary Cost of Health Care Resources Used Per Episode of Care in Preparation and Administration of Trastuzumab IV Infusion, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time was estimated using hourly salary data from NHS reference costs. Consumable supplies were costed using hospital pharmacy data and online sources. Analysis was limited to only those items with an individual cost of £0.05 or more. Monetary cost of health care resources was determined by adding the costs of consumable supplies and HCP time spent in the preparation and administration of trastuzumab IV infusion during a single episode of care. The average monetary cost per episode was calculated and expressed in pounds., Data collection up to 1 year|Task-Specific HCP Time Required Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab Single-Use Injection Device, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time spent on each pre-specified task in the administration of trastuzumab single-use injection device was recorded during each episode of care. The average task-specific HCP time per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Task-Specific HCP Time Required Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab SC Injection, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time spent on each pre-specified task in the administration of trastuzumab SC injection was recorded during each episode of care. The average task-specific HCP time per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Task-Specific HCP Time Required Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab IV Infusion, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time spent on each pre-specified task in the administration of trastuzumab IV infusion was recorded during each episode of care. The average task-specific HCP time per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Task-Specific HCP Time Required Per Episode of Care in the Preparation of Trastuzumab IV Infusion, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time spent on each pre-specified task in the preparation of trastuzumab IV infusion was recorded during each episode of care. The average task-specific HCP time per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Total HCP Time Required Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab Single-Use Injection Device, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time spent on each pre-specified task in the administration of trastuzumab single-use injection device was recorded during each episode of care. Total HCP time was determined by adding together the time spent on all tasks. The average total HCP time per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Total HCP Time Required Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab SC Injection, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time spent on each pre-specified task in the administration of trastuzumab SC injection was recorded during each episode of care. Total HCP time was determined by adding together the time spent on all tasks. The average total HCP time per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Total HCP Time Required Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab IV Infusion, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time spent on each pre-specified task in the administration of trastuzumab IV infusion was recorded during each episode of care. Total HCP time was determined by adding together the time spent on all tasks. The average total HCP time per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Total HCP Time Required Per Episode of Care in the Preparation of Trastuzumab IV Infusion, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. HCP time spent on each pre-specified task in the preparation of trastuzumab IV infusion was recorded during each episode of care. Total HCP time was determined by adding together the time spent on all tasks. The average total HCP time per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Number of Consumable Medical Supplies Used Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab Single-Use Injection Device, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. Consumable medical supplies used in the administration of trastuzumab single-use injection device were counted during a single episode of care. The average number of each type of consumable used per episode was calculated., Data collection up to 1 year|Number of Consumable Medical Supplies Used Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab SC Injection, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. Consumable medical supplies used in the administration of trastuzumab SC injection were counted during a single episode of care. The average number of each type of consumable used per episode was calculated., Data collection up to 1 year|Number of Consumable Medical Supplies Used Per Episode of Care in the Administration of Trastuzumab IV Infusion, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. Consumable medical supplies used in the administration of trastuzumab IV infusion were counted during a single episode of care. The average number of each type of consumable used per episode was calculated., Data collection up to 1 year|Number of Consumable Medical Supplies Used Per Episode of Care in the Preparation of Trastuzumab IV Infusion, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. Consumable medical supplies used in the preparation of trastuzumab IV infusion were counted during a single episode of care. The average number of each type of consumable used per episode was calculated., Data collection up to 1 year|Total Participant Time Per Episode of Care Spent in the Care Unit for Administration of Trastuzumab, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. Arrival and discharge times were recorded to determine the total time spent in the care unit during a single episode of care. The average time spent in the care unit per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year|Total Participant Time Per Episode of Care Spent in the Chair for Administration of Trastuzumab, The study observed 36 episodes of care (12 per study arm) to collect data on infusion/injection-related tasks. Start and stop 'chair' times were recorded to determine the total time spent in the treatment chair during a single episode of care. The average time spent in the chair per episode was calculated and expressed in minutes., Data collection up to 1 year
This prospective, non-interventional time and motion study will evaluate the costs of healthcare resource utilization associated with the administration of trastuzumab (Herceptin) SC and IV formulations in HER2-positive EBC. This is a sub-study of the clinical study MO22982 (NCT01401166/PrefHer).