Evaluating Panitumumab (ABX-EGF) in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine if panitumumab, in combination with irinotecan, leucovorin, and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) is safe and efficacious in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Irinotecan|BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin
Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Grade 4 Diarrhea (Part 2), The number of participants with grade 3 or grade 4 diarrhea in Part 2 of the study. Grading of diarrhea followed the grading scale in Version 2.0 of the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC)., Until disease progression (median 47 weeks)|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Grade 4 Diarrhea (Part 1), The number of participants with grade 3 or grade 4 diarrhea in Part 1 of the study. Grading of diarrhea followed the grading scale in Version 2.0 of the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC)., Until disease progression (median 35 weeks) or 48 weeks, whichever occurred first
Number of Participants With an Objective Tumor Response (Part 2), Objective tumor response (complete or partial) in Part 2 of the study, based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), where complete response = disappearance of all target lesions, partial response = ≥30% reduction in lesion size, progressive disease = ≥20% increase in tumor size; otherwise stable disease., Until disease progression (median 47 weeks)|Time to Disease Progression (Part 2), Kaplan-Meier estimate of median time from the first dose of study drug to first observed disease progression or death if the death was due to disease progression (whichever comes first) in Part 2 of the study. Participants who had not progressed or died for reasons other than disease progression were censored at their last disease assessment date., From enrollment until death or diease progression. Maximum follow-up time was 16 months.|Progression-free Survival Time (Part 2), Kaplan-Meier estimate of median time from enrollment to death or disease progression in Part 2 of the study. Participants who had not progressed and had not died were censored at their last disease assessment date., From enrollment until disease progression or death. Maximum follow-up time was 16 months.|Survival Time (Part 2), Kaplan-Meier estimate of the median time from enrollment to death from any cause. Participants who did not die on study were censored at their last contact date., From enrollment until death. Maximum follow-up time was 16 months.|Number of Participants Who Died (Part 2), The number of participants in Part 2 who died during the study., From enrollment until last contact. Maximum follow-up was 16 months.|Number of Participants With Objective Tumor Response (Part 1), Objective tumor response (complete or partial) in Part 1 of the study, based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), where complete response = disappearance of all target lesions, partial response = ≥30% reduction in lesion size, progressive disease = ≥20% increase in tumor size; otherwise stable disease., Until disease progression (median 35 weeks) or 48 weeks, whichever occurred first|Progression-free Survival Time (Part 1), Kaplan-Meier estimate of median time from enrollment to death or disease progression in Part 1 of the study. Participants who had not progressed and had not died were censored at their last disease assessment date., From enrollment until disease progression or death. Maximum follow-up time was 25 months.|Time to Disease Progression (Part 1), Kaplan-Meier estimate of the median time from the first dose of study drug to disease progression or death if due to disease progression (whichever comes first) in Part 1 of the study. Participants who had not progressed or died for reasons other than disease progression were censored at their last disease assessment date., From enrollment until disease progression or death. Maximum follow-up time was 25 months.|Survival Time (Part 1), Kaplan-Meier estimate of the median time from enrollment to death from any cause. Participants who did not die on study were censored at their last contact date., From enrollment until death. Maximum follow-up time was 25 months.|Time to Treatment Failure (Part 1), Kaplan-Meier estimate of the median time from the date of first dose of panitumumab or chemotherapy to the date the decision was made to end treatment for any reason in Part 1 of the study., Until disease progression (median 35 weeks) or 48 weeks, whichever occurred first|Time to Initial Objective Tumor Response (Part 1), Median time to first observed objective tumor response (complete or partial) among responders in Part 1 of the study., Until disease progression (median 35 weeks) or 48 weeks, whichever occurred first
Indication Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Primary Objective To assess the safety of ABX-EGF in combination with the FOLFIRI regimen in subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer. (The primary objective in the original protocol was to assess progression free survival after treatment with ABX-EGF in combination with the Saltz regimen in subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer).

Secondary Objective(s) To assess the clinical efficacy of ABX-EGF in combination with the FOLFIRI regimen in subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer. (Secondary objectives in the original protocol were to assess safety and additional measures of the clinical efficacy of ABX-EGF in combination with the Saltz regimen in subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer).

To assess the pharmacokinetics (PK) of ABX-EGF in combination with the FOLFIRI regimen in subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer. (Secondary objectives in the original protocol were to assess the PK of ABX-EGF in combination with the Saltz regimen, and the PK of irinotecan (IR) and its active metabolite SN-38 when IR is given in combination with ABX-EGF, leucovorin (LV), and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in subjects with metastatic colorectal cancer)