The Culture of Advanced or Recurrent Ovarian Cancer Organoids and Drug Screening
Most ovarian cancer will relapse after standard therapy. Patients with recurrent ovarian cancer are resistant to platinum. Due to the high heterogeneity between ovarian cancer, individual precise therapy is of great importance. The study will establish ovarian cancer organoids, whose original tissues from the patients with advanced or recurrent ovarian cancer, their tumors cannot be excised completely. The organoids will be identified at the histopathological level and gene level for evaluating the consistency with the original tumor tissue. The drug's sensitivity and specificity are detected through the organoids model. Compared with the clinical efficiency of the actual drug regimen, the efficacy of the organoid drug screening model can be assessed. The aim is to construct a precise drug screening platform for advanced and recurrent ovarian cancer patients and innovate drug research and development.
Ovarian Neoplasms
OTHER
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival means the duration from enrollment to disease progression or death., 2 years
Overall survival, Overall survival means the duration from enrollment to death due to any cause. The last follow-up time is calculated as the death time for subjects who lost follow-up., 2 years
This trial is a single-arm and prospective observational study. The subjects are the advanced or recurrent ovarian cancer patients, who are planned to undergo surgery, but the neoplastic lesions can't be excised thoroughly. They voluntarily participate in the study and sign an informed consent form. General information will be collected, including name, age, address and contact information. Comprehensive physical examination will be performed. Ovarian cancer tumor markers and imaging examinations (gastroenterostomy, ultrasound / CT / MRI or PET / CT) should be taken within 4 weeks before treatment. Histopathological and genetic characteristics were analyzed in organoids and paired primary tumors to confirm whether organoids faithfully recapitulated the original tumor tissues. The sensitivity and specificity of first-line and second-line drugs from NCCN guidelines will be detected on the organoids. Ovarian cancer (CA125、HE4、CEA、CA-199) markers will be tested within one week. After the treatment period of 3 and 6 months, the short-term efficacy will be evaluated according to the efficacy evaluation standard of solid tumor (Recist1.1) (the window period is 4 weeks). Biochemical indexes, adverse reactions, and prognosis (PFS, OS) will be followed. Compared with the efficacy of the actual clinical regimen, the potency of organoid as a drug screening model will be assessed.