Peri-Transfusion QOL Assessments (PTQA): A New Paradigm of Transfusion Decision Support for Patients With MDS
This research study is evaluating how to best tailor blood transfusion decisions to match the quality of life changes experienced by individual patients with MDS.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
OTHER: Peri-Transfusion QOL Assessment
Number of Participants With Receipt of Second Transfusion, Assessed via medical record review at two months post index transfusion, Two months|Median Difference in Units pRBCs (for Those Transfusion-dependent), Assessed via medical record review at two months post index transfusion. We identified historical matches for 25 patients (21 from Dana-Farber, 1 from Wake Forest, and 3 from Yale) and compared the median number of red cell units in these patients to the PTQA group over 2 months., Two months|Number of Hospitalizations (for Both Transfusion Groups), Assessed via medical record review at two months post index transfusion, Two months|Number of Clinic Visits (for Both Transfusion Groups), Assessed via medical record review at two months post index transfusion, Two months
PTQA Utilization, Assessed via follow-up survey at 2 months after index transfusion, Two months|Number of Patients With Decisional Regret, Assessed via follow-up survey at 2 months after index transfusion. Of the 38 patients who completed PTQA, 6 did not complete the 2-month follow-up survey, and 1 passed away., Two months|Perceptions of Impact of PTQA on Care, Percentage of patients reporting that PTQA impacted their treatment decisions. Assessed by a binary (yes/no) on the follow-up survey at 2-months after index transfusion., Two months|Perceived Stress by the Associated Scales, Assessed via follow-up survey at 2 months after index transfusion, Two months
Each patient with MDS reacts differently to blood transfusions; some will feel better after transfusion, while others may not. The main purpose of this survey study is to determine whether it is possible to use quality of life changes - as measured by a validated questionnaire - experienced by individual patients to help physicians and patients with MDS make decisions regarding future blood transfusions. This research is being done because the investigators hope to help doctors better understand the impact of blood transfusions on the quality of life of each patient.

The study uses a standardized MDS-specific quality of life questionnaire that participants will fill out before and after an upcoming transfusion. The investigators will compare the scores of these questionnaires and notify both the participant and provider if the participant has experienced any changes (positive or negative) in his/her quality of life before and after transfusion. The investigators' hope is that doctor-patient teams will use this quality of life information to determine whether the participant should continue receiving transfusions, decrease the frequency of transfusions, or stop receiving transfusions altogether if not needed.