SUCCESS - Feasibility of HPV Testing and Treatment of Pre-cancerous Cervical Cancer Lesions (HPV Study)
The goal is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of integrating into existing health systems, provision of HPV screening and treatment of pre-cancerous cervical cancer lesions with ablative treatments in Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Guatemala, and the Philippines. Study findings will inform implementation of cervical cancer prevention and treatment services as part of a global effort to eliminate cervical cancer, with particular relevance for low-and-middle income countries. This will inform country strategy and guidelines on offering integrated cervical cancer prevention and treatment services in a manner that is culturally sensitive, client oriented, and system appropriate.
Cervical Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: HPV testing
Percentage of HPV positive women who complete screen to treatment within 3 months, Proportion of HPV positive women who undergo treatment for precancerous cervical lesions within three months of screening, Three months
Acceptability - Percentage of women screened for HPV who report positive experience of care, Assess the adoption, satisfaction, and uptake of the cervical cancer services by the users and the providers, 18 months|Feasibility - Turnaround time from screening to treatment, Assess the adoption and practicability of providing the cervical cancer services through the mechanisms that exist in of each of the four countries, 18 months|Unit cost of providing HPV screening and treatment of precancerous cervical cancer lesion, The cost of providing the services and the user costs, 18 months
Research question:

1. How feasible is it to implement integrated HPV testing (including self-collection of samples) and ablative treatment of lesions precancerous cervical cancer lesions among HPV+ women aged 30-49 years (general population) and 25-49 years (WLHIV), leveraging on the existing health systems in the four study countries?
2. What is the acceptability of HPV screening through self-collection or clinician collection of sample, and ablative treatment of precancerous lesions among women accessing cervical cancer services in the study sites?
3. What is the cost of implementing integrated cervical cancer screening and precancer treatment services (Supply: counselling, HPV testing, treatment, training health care providers, etc.), and user-related costs (travel, out of pocket expenses opportunity costs, etc.) in the SUCCESS project supported sites?
4. Which factors influence the successful implementation of integrated HPV screening and treatment services (e.g. perceptions, experience of care, religious beliefs, culture, individual characteristics, availability of services, cost, etc.)?

Methodology:

We will utilize a hybrid effectiveness implementation Type III study design, using mixed methods approach. In Phase I, 2,227 women are enrolled in health facilities in each of the four countries (disaggregated by general population and WLHIV) and follow those who are HPV positive to determine the completion of screen-to-treat within three months. In Phase II focusing on community self-sampling, 8,694 are enrolled in Burkina Faso, Guatemala and the Philippines.

Quantitative and qualitative data will be collected from clients, service providers, key stakeholders, and secondary analysis of service delivery including laboratory data will be analyzed to assess acceptability and feasibility of implementing integrated cervical cancer screening and treatment services.