Awareness, Information, and Resources for Lung Cancer Screening Program for Community-Partnered Lung Cancer Screening
This trial investigates an educational program called Awareness, Information, and Resources for Lung Cancer Screening Program in improving knowledge about lung cancer screening in medically underserved communities. This program aims to educate and remove barriers to lung cancer screening among medically underserved community members who are eligible for lung cancer screening, and to improve access to evidence-based screening guidelines for early detection for lung cancer in the Western New York area.
Lung Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: Educational Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaire Administration
Number of programs offered, Up to 1 year|Average number of attendees at each site, Up to 1 year|Demographics of attendees at each site, Up to 1 year|Number of medically underserved, high risk community members reached, Up to 1 year|Percent change in lung cancer screening awareness as assessed before and after program completion, Pre and post questionnaire to be given to participants, Up to 1 year|Percent change in knowledge of eligibility guidelines for screening as assessed before and after program completion, Pre and post questionnaire to be given to participants before and after educational sessions, Up to 1 year|Percent Change in knowledge of benefits of early detection as assessed before and after program completion, Pre and post questionnaire to be completed by participants before and after educational sessions, Up to 1 year|Change in fear, worry, and increased health-related self-efficacy, Pre and post questionnaire to be completed by participants before and after educational sessions, Up to 1 year|Number of screening eligible individuals reached, Up to 1 year|Number of screening eligible individuals navigated to lung cancer screening, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Collaborate with community organizations and leaders to leverage community-based assets to disseminate education about lung cancer screening.

II. Reach medically underserved, high risk community members. III. Enhance lung cancer screening knowledge among medically underserved, high risk community members.

IV. Navigate screening-eligible community members to lung cancer screening.

OUTLINE:

Participants complete the Roswell Awareness, Information and Resources for Lung Cancer Screening (AIR) Program over 45 minutes and then receive the High-Risk Lung Cancer Tip Sheet.