A Study of a New Drug Combination, Copanlisib and Fulvestrant, in Advanced Breast Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and how well copanlisib works when given together with fulvestrant in treating patients with estrogen receptor positive (ER+) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative (HER2-) breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced) and progressing after prior treatment. HER2 and ER are two types of proteins called receptors that can affect the growth of breast cancer cells. Additionally, investigators hope to learn from this study if tumor genetic information is important for predicting whether this type of breast cancer will respond to fulvestrant and copanlisib. Copanlisib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Hormone therapy using fulvestrant may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells. Giving copanlisib and fulvestrant may work better in treating patients with ER+ and HER2- breast cancer compared to fulvestrant alone.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Copanlisib|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Toxicities will be tabulated based on type and grade., Up to 30 days post treatment
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan Meier method, with median and 95% confidence interval (CI) reported., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, assessed up to 30 days post treatment|Response rate, Response rate will be reported for subjects with PTEN loss by immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis performed retrospectively. This will be done across cohorts., Up to 30 days post treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicities will be tabulated based on type and grade. Any toxicity seen in more than 10% of patients will be reported, and all grade 3-4 toxicities will be reported., Up to 30 days post treatment
Pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamic data (RPPA), Descriptive statistics will be provided., Up to 30 days post treatment|Biomarkers analysis, Prognostic effect of biomarker for PFS will be examined by the Kaplan Meier (KM) method or/and Cox proportional hazard model and for objective response rate (ORR) using logistic regression model. Predictive effect of biomarker will be explored by examining the interaction effect of biomarker and arm in Cox or logistic regression model. For markers measured along multiple time points, generalized linear mixed effects model will be used to model longitudinal trajectories along time with the inference focus on the arm factor, without and with adjustment for other covariates. Two sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied to compare time-matched biomarkers between the two arms or two patient subsets. Paired sample t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test will be applied to compare subject-specific biomarkers between two time points. Multiple comparisons will be adjusted to control false discovery rate. Proposed subset analyses will be applicable to biomarkers., Up to 30 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish safety of the combination of copanlisib and fulvestrant (FC). II. Evaluate the response rate (RR) of the combination of copanlisib and fulvestrant in patients with estrogen-receptor positive (ER+)/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) negative metastatic breast cancer that has previously progressed on aromatase inhibitor (AI)/cyclin dependent kinase (CDK) 4/6 inhibitor therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate progression-free survival (PFS) in patients treated with copanlisib and fulvestrant stratifying by actionable PIK3CA mutation, actionable PIK3CA or PTEN mutation, or wild type PIK3CA and PTEN.

II. Estimate the RR in subjects with PTEN loss by immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis performed retrospectively.

III. Evaluate toxicity in patients treated with FC in Phase II.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate copanlisib pharmacokinetics (PK) when given in combination with fulvestrant.

II. Explore association between intrinsic subtype and response to FC therapy. III. Assess baseline levels and treatment-induced proteomic changes and correlate with response to FC.

IV. Evaluate circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) mutations at baseline and over time for response predictors at baseline, clonal evolution associated with treatment, and resistance mechanisms at disease progression.

V. Evaluate PFS in patients with baseline ctDNA PIK3CA actionable mutations versus (vs.) those with wild type PK3CA.

VI. To evaluate genomic and gene expression changes in tumor cells and in associated tumor microenvironment before and after administration of copanlisib in combination with fulvestrant and at the time of progression.

VII. Evaluate circulating markers of metabolism before and after PI3K inhibitor therapy which may predict treatment response and resistance mechanisms.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive copanlisib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) over 1-2 minutes on days 1 and 15 of cycle 1 and on day 1 beginning cycle 2. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.