A Study to Assess PV-10 Chemoablation of Cancer of the Liver
This open-label study will evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and effect on tumor growth following a single intralesional injection of PV-10 in subjects with either (a) hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that is not amenable to resection, transplant or other potentially curative therapy or (b) cancer metastatic to the liver.
Cancer Metastatic to the Liver|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Metastatic Melanoma|Metastatic Ocular Melanoma|Metastatic Uveal Melanoma|Metastatic Lung Cancer|Metastatic Colon Cancer|Metastatic Colorectal Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer|Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: PV-10 (10% rose bengal disodium)
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability] of hepatic administration of PV-10, Systemic and locoregional Adverse Events (AEs) will be graded by CTCAE v4.0 and coded according to MedDRA; AE data for all subjects in the 1st cohort will be assessed prior to dose escalation. Final assessment use AE data for all subjects, 28 days
PV-10 distribution, Lesion distribution and retention of PV-10 following injection assessed by CT, 3 months|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) of Target and measurable Bystander Lesions (if present) by 2D EASL and/or RECIST criteria, 3 months|Changes in markers of hepatic function, Changes in markers of hepatic function, including ALP, ALT, AST, total bilirubin, 3 months|Pharmacokinetics of PV-10, Pharmacokinetics of PV-10 in the bloodstream following intralesional injection; samples will be obtained immediately prior to PV-10 injection and at 2, 4, 8, 24 and 72 hours, and 7, 14 and 28 days to assess uptake and excretion of PV-10, 28 days|Overall survival, Overall survival will be assessed for the intent-to-treat population, Assessed every 3 months for up to 100 months
Exploratory Correlative Endpoints, Serial correlative samples may be collected from subjects in each Expansion Cohort to evaluate potential changes in subjects' immunologic activity in response to PV-10 treatment; samples will be analyzed at one or more Sponsor-designated central laboratory, 28 days
Subject will be enrolled in one of four planned cohorts (Main Study Group, Expansion Cohort 1, Expansion Cohort 2 or Expansion Cohort 3).

Main Study Group. Three initial subjects with either HCC or cancer metastatic to the liver will receive 0.25 mL PV-10 per cc lesion volume (Lv) to a single lesion (up to a maximum dose of 7.5 mL PV-10). If none of the initial three subjects experiences a new and persistent CTCAE Grade 3 or greater non-hematological or any Grade 4 hematological toxicity over a 28-day follow-up interval, an additional three subjects will be enrolled and similarly treated with PV-10 administered at 0.50 mL per cc Lv (up to a maximum dose of 15 mL PV-10) provided no new and persistent Grade 3 or greater non-hematological or any Grade 4 hematological toxicity occurs.

Expansion Cohort 1 (EC1: PV-10 plus/minus Checkpoint Inhibition). Following demonstration of safety and tolerability in the Main Study Group, up to 48 additional subjects with cancers metastatic to the liver or with HCC will be enrolled into Expansion Cohort 1 (EC1). Subjects will be treated with PV-10 administered at 0.50 mL per cc Lv (up to a maximum dose of 15 mL PV-10). Subjects may receive injection of up to two lesions in any PV-10 treatment cycle. Enrollment will continue provided no new and persistent Grade 3 or greater non-hematological (excluding fatigue) or any Grade 4 hematological toxicity occurs.

Expansion Cohort 2 (EC2: PV-10 plus Checkpoint Inhibition). Following demonstration of safety and tolerability in the Main Study Group, up to 12 additional subjects with HCC on a background of standard care checkpoint inhibition therapy (i.e., anti-PD-1 therapy) will be enrolled into Expansion Cohort 2 (EC2). Subjects will be treated with PV-10 administered at 0.50 mL per cc Lv (up to a maximum dose of 15 mL PV-10). Subjects may receive injection of up to two lesions in any PV-10 treatment cycle. Enrollment will continue provided no new and persistent Grade 3 or greater non-hematological (excluding fatigue) or any Grade 4 hematological toxicity occurs.

Expansion Cohort 3 (EC3: PV-10 plus Checkpoint Inhibition). Following demonstration of safety and tolerability in the Main Study Group, up to 12 additional subjects with hepatic metastases of uveal melanoma (mUM) on a background of standard care checkpoint inhibition therapy (i.e., anti-CTLA-4, anti-PD-1 or combination anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-1 therapy) will be enrolled into Expansion Cohort 3 (EC3). Subjects will be treated with PV-10 administered at 0.50 mL per cc Lv (up to a maximum dose of 15 mL PV-10). Subjects may receive injection of up to two lesions in any PV-10 treatment cycle. Enrollment will continue provided no new and persistent Grade 3 or greater non-hematological (excluding fatigue) or any Grade 4 hematological toxicity occurs.

Concomitant therapy with immune checkpoint inhibition is allowed in Expansion Cohort 1 and required in Expansion Cohort 2 and Expansion Cohort 3. This concomitant therapy must commence at least 7 days prior to initial PV-10 administration.

Subjects in each Expansion Cohort one or more additional injectable tumor ≥ 1 cm in diameter will be eligible for treatment of one or more additional injectable tumor 28 days to 6 months after prior PV-10 administration provided that any prior treatments with PV-10 were well tolerated. This may be repeated until all injectable tumors ≥ 1 cm in diameter have received PV-10.