Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Based Radiation Therapy and Cisplatin in Patients With Stage I, Stage II, Stage III, or Stage IV Cervical Cancer
Rationale: Computer systems that allow doctors to create a 3 dimensional (3-D) picture of the tumor may help in planning radiation therapy and may result in more tumor cells being killed. Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. Drugs, such as cisplatin, may make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy.
Cervical Cancer
RADIATION: intracavitary balloon brachytherapy|RADIATION: external beam radiation therapy|RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiation therapy|RADIATION: radiation therapy treatment planning/simulation|RADIATION: 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy|DRUG: Cisplatin
Feasibility of Using MRI for Intracavitary Brachytherapy Treatment Planning., Feasibility will be defined if no greater than 10% of patients experience one of the following events: a) patient is unable to tolerate 50% of MRI-based brachytherapy treatments and b) patient experiences any grade 4 acute ("early") non-hematologic toxicity attributed to brachytherapy. Acute toxicity occurs within 60 days of therapy., Completion of study
Frequency of Grade 2 and Higher Gastrointestinal and Genitourinary Early Event Rates as Compared to Historical Series., 60 days post treatment|True Pelvis Failure, Time to local recurrence|Pelvis Failure, Time to loco-regional recurrence|Progression-free Survival, Time to recurrence|Overall Survival, Time to death
PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying magnetic resonance imaging-based radiation therapy and cisplatin in treating patients with stage I, stage II, stage III, or stage IV cervical cancer.Detailed DescriptionPRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the feasibility of using MRI based treatment planning for intracavitary brachytherapy treatment planning.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the incidence of early toxicities, specifically genitourinary and gastrointestinal.

II. To evaluate the incidence of late toxicities, specifically genitourinary and gastrointestinal.

III. To evaluate local, regional, and distant recurrence rates. IV. To evaluate disease-free and overall survival rates. OUTLINE: Patients undergo external beam radiotherapy (3-dimensional conformal OR intensity-modulated) and 4-6 insertions of MRI-guided intracavitary brachytherapy over 8 weeks. Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes for 5-6 weeks during radiotherapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 weeks, every 4 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.