A Mobile Application, Oncpatient, to Assist Patients Undergoing Radiation Therapy
This clinical trial determines how well the oncpatient mobile application work in assisting patients undergoing radiation treatment. Radiation therapy can be complex. The technology, daily treatments, and possible side effects can be confusing to prevent and manage. Traditional radiation patient education includes a large amount of information, including details of treatment logistics, side effect prevention, and management. However, this information is not always readily accessible or memorable through the long course of therapy, and critical details can be missed. Oncpatient is a mobile application intended to be a more convenient and accessible form of patient education and guidance that is readily available to help patients and their caretakers navigate through radiation treatment.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
Completion rate, The percent of patients who indicate in the survey that they were able to download the application and use it at least once during radiation will be defined as the completion rate., Up to 1 year
Patient opinions on the usability and helpfulness of the mobile application in helping them through radiation treatments, Survey responses and collected demographic data will be evaluated with descriptive statistics where possible. Free-text responses will be recorded and utilized by the application developers to inform future iterations of the application., Up to 1 year|Satisfaction with the mobile application and radiation treatment, Survey responses and collected demographic data will be evaluated with descriptive statistics where possible. Free-text responses will be recorded and utilized by the application developers to inform future iterations of the application., Up to 1 year|Opinions on existing or new features for the mobile application to be given to future patients, Survey responses and collected demographic data will be evaluated with descriptive statistics where possible. Free-text responses will be recorded and utilized by the application developers to inform future iterations of the application., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the feasibility of implementing a mobile application designed to be an educational resource designed for patients undergoing radiation treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess patient opinions on the usability and helpfulness of the mobile application in helping them through radiation treatments.

II. To assess satisfaction with the mobile application and radiation treatment. III. To assess opinions on existing or new features for the mobile application to be given to future patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients use the oncpatient mobile application over the course of radiation therapy. Patients also complete a survey on the final day of radiation treatment.