Comparison of Intravenous Lidocaine vs Ketamine in Colorectal Surgery
Patients undergoing open colorectal surgery were randomly divided into two groups: Intravenous Lidocaine (IV-Lido) vs Intravenous Ketamine (IV-Keta).

For the IV-Lido group, patients received a loading dose of Lidocaine than a continuous infusion over twenty-four hours.

For the IV-Keta goup, patients received a loading dose of Ketamine than a continuous injection of Ketamine over twenty-four hours.

Plasma concentrations of Interleukin-6(IL-6) were measured preoperatively before anesthetic induction and at twenty-four hour post operatively.
Colorectal (Colon or Rectal) Cancer|Inflammation
DRUG: Lidocaine IV|DRUG: Ketamine Injectable Solution
The variation of Interleukin-6 levels, The difference of Interleukine-6 (IL-6) plasma concentration between baseline values and 24 hours after surgery., 24 hours after surgery
Pain assessed by Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), Postoperative pain was assessed by the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), Postoperatively, at Hour 2, Hour 12 and Hour 24. the patient asked to circle the number between 0 and 10:"0" usually represents 'no pain at all' whereas "10" represents 'the worst pain ever possible'.|Post-operative nausea and vomiting, Incidence of post-operative nausea and vomiting during the first 24 hours., During the first 24 hours postoperatively|Bowel function., Time to return of bowel function., During the first 24 hours postoperatively|Hospital length of stay., Hospital length of stay ( in days), From date of randomization until the date of to discharge from the hospital assessed up to 15 days|Post-operative complications., Incidence of intrahospital post-operative complications., From date of randomization until the date of to discharge from the hospital assessed up to 15 days
Patients undergoing open colorectal surgery with tumor resection were randomised prospectively into two groups: Intravenous Lidocaine (IV-Lido) vs Intravenous Ketamine (IV-Keta).

For the IV-Lido group (n=25), patients received a loading dose of 1.5 mg/kg of Lidocaine than a continuous infusion of 1.5 mg/kg/h over twenty-four hours.

For the IV-Keta goup(n=25), patients received a loading dose of 0.15mg/kg of Ketamine than a continuous injection of 0.15 mg/kg/h of Ketamine over twenty-four hours.

For both groups, plasma concentrations of Interleukin-6(IL-6) were measured preoperatively before anesthetic induction and at twenty-four hour post operatively. Plasma IL-6 concentrations at each point were compared between the groups.