Glycerol Block of the Trigeminal Ganglion in Trigeminal Neuralgia Using a New Neuronavigation-based Surgical Technique
Trigeminal neuralgia is one of the strongest pains known to humans. Some patients do not have enough effect with the available pharmaceutical treatments and are offered a type of surgery, which involves the injection of glycerol in a nerve structure called trigeminal ganglion. The researchers will do a pilot study on 10 patients with a new surgical technique using neuronavigation. The researchers believe that this new neuronavigation-based system can improve the precision of the technique and reduce the risk for complications.
Trigeminal Neuralgia|Headache Disorders
DRUG: Glycerol
Number of adverse events, Number of adverse events and number of participants with adverse events after glycerol injection in the trigeminal ganglion and severity of adverse events by the method used. Registration of any adverse events categorized by probable relationship to drug or the procedure. Data obtained from the headache diaries as well as open questions during consultations., For the follow-up period of 12 weeks
Number of attacks with trigeminal neuralgia, 12 weeks|Intensity of the trigeminal neuralgia attacks assessed by Visual analogue scale, expressed as score on Visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain, 12 weeks|Intensity of the trigeminal neuralgia attacks assessed by questionnaire, expressed by means of patient global impression of change questionnaire (PGIC), 12 weeks|Number of doses of common analgesics, week 1-4, week 5-8, week 9-12, 12 weeks
Trigeminal neuralgia is one of the strongest pains known to humans. Some patients do not have enough effect with the available pharmaceutical treatments and are offered a type of surgery, which involves the injection of glycerol in a nerve structure called trigeminal ganglion. The researchers will do a pilot study on 10 patients with a new surgical technique using neuronavigation. The researchers believe that this new neuronavigation-based system can improve the precision of the technique and reduce the risk for complications.