Early Detection of Breast Cancer
The TriNetra™ Breast test is intended for use as a breast cancer screening test that evaluates Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) associated with breast cancer. The TriNetra™Breast test should be a useful breast cancer screening option for asymptomatic women 40 years of age and older.

This pivotal study is designed to provide evidence of test performance and to demonstrate its safety in the intended use population in the USA.
Breast Neoplasms
The primary endpoint of this study is the sensitivity and specificity of TriNetra Breast for breast cancer screening in women 40 years and older, using mammography and histopathology confirmed diagnosis (when relevant) as the reference methods., The study evaluates the clinical sensitivity and specificity of the TriNetra Breast in Mammography-Negative (BIRAD 1/2/3) and Mammography-Positive (BIRAD 4/5) Cohorts, 2 years
The Positive Predictive Values (PPV) and Negative Predictive Values (NPV), The study evaluates the PPV and NPV of the TriNetra Breast for breast cancer screening in women 40 years and older, using mammography and histopathology confirmed diagnosis (when relevant) as the reference methods., 2 years|Detection rates by TNM stage, The study evaluates the detection rates (sensitivity in %) by TNM stage for the TriNetra Breast test, using surgical pathology evaluation as a reference., 2 years|Clinical performance in dense breast findings on mammography, The study evaluates the clinical sensitivity and specificity (in %) for the TriNetra Breast test in dense breast findings on mammography, 2 years|Sensitivity and specificity for ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) detection, The study evaluates the clinical sensitivity and specificity (in %) for the TriNetra Breast test in ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) detection., 2 years
This prospective, case-cohort study evaluates the sensitivity and specificity of the TriNetra™-Breast test for breast cancer (adenocarcinoma) screening in women aged 40 years and older. Approximately 700 subjects will be enrolled in one of the two non-overlapping cohorts in this study. Cohort A will enroll about 500 subjects with a standard risk of breast cancer who fulfill the enrollment criteria. Cohort B will enroll approximately 200 subjects with a mammogram result of BI-RADS 4 or 5.

The results of TriNetra™ -Breast will be compared with the results of mammography. The corresponding diagnostic biopsy pathology results obtained as the standard of care will be correlated with test results to confirm the performance estimates (when indicated). Mammography will be the reference standard of evaluation of breast screening status for cohort A. Histopathology report will be the reference standard to evaluate the malignant or non-malignant clinical status for cohort B. Availability of histopathological results is mandatory for the evaluation of cohort B.