A Trial of Radiotherapy and Durvalumab in DLBCL and FL
The primary objective for this study is to determine the safety profile of radiotherapy and durvalumab, a PD-L1 inhibitor.

Primary endpoint:

Toxicity, drug pharmacokinetics (PK), maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase two dose (RPTD) of simultaneous radiotherapy plus durvalumab in patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL or FL.

Secondary endpoints:

* ORR
* Progression-free survival
* Overall survival

Exploratory endpoints include description of biological effects of combination radiotherapy plus durvalumab (Imaging results, immune function, PK and PD-see 'research methodologies') and in the PET-Sub-Study, biodistribution of 89Zr Durvalumab and 89Zr-IAB22M2C.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Durvalumab|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|RADIATION: Radiotherapy (cohort 6 only)
Number of participants treated with radiotherapy and durvalumab with treatment-related adverse events as assessed using CTCAE v4.0. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)., A minimum of 3 patients will initially be enrolled in each cohort, if none of the first 3 patients experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), the doses in that cohort will be deemed safe and tolerable and escalation may continue. DLTs will be grade 4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia, grade 3 hemolysis, grade 4 immune related AEs.

If 1 of the first 3 evaluable patients in a cohort experiences a DLT, the cohort will be expanded to at least 6 patients. If there are no further DLTs in the first 6 DLT-evaluable patients, the doses in that cohort will be deemed safe and tolerable and escalation may continue.

If a DLT is observed in ≥ 33% of patients (e.g., 2 or more of up to 6 patients), the dose combination at which this occurs will be considered intolerable and the MTD will have been exceeded for radiotherapy If the MTD is exceeded in any cohort, the highest dose combination at which fewer than 33% experience a DLT will be declared the combination MTD., First 28 days of treatment
Response rates (according to the Lugano classification for Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma), Response rates, 0-12 months|Progression free survival, Progression free survival in patients who cease treatment due to toxicity., From ceasing treatment annually up to 5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival, Every 6 months from PD up to two years.
Diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and Follicular Lymphoma (FL) are the most common non Hodgkin lymphomas. Standard first line treatment achieves cure in approximately half of patients. However 30% die from relapsed lymphoma.

Durvalumab (an antibody which blocks programmed cell death ligand 1) and other immunotherapies fight cancer by blocking barriers to immune system activity. Immune control of lymphoma provides the prospect of cure, even when chemotherapy has failed. Radiotherapy has striking effects on the immune system and can boost responses to these immunotherapies. The effect of concurrent radiotherapy and durvalumab in DLBCL and FL is unproven.

This study will evaluate the safety and effect of simultaneous radiotherapy plus durvalumab (a PD-L1 inhibitor) in relapsed DLBCL and FL patients.