Phase 2 Study of S-1 as 2nd Line Therapy in Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether S-1 is effective as 2nd line therapy in slowing tumor activity in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. The study is also looking at the safety of S-1.
Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: S-1
Overall tumor response rate (ORR - the proportion of patients with objective evidence of PR or CR), Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) until death or removal from study for any reason. Tumor assessmentswill be obtained at baseline and at the end of every even cycle
To evaluate the duration of response (DR), and progression-free survival (PFS), Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) until death or removal from study for any reason. Pts will be followed for survival every 2 mos after PD for up to 12 mos from the date of enrollment of the last pt.|To evaluate the safety profile of S-1, Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) until death/removal from study. AEs reported through f/up; blood/urine collected at baseline, Days 8&15, w/in 24 hrs of drug on Day 1 of each cycle after Cycle 1, at end of treatment.|To investigate the relationship of S-1 plasma levels (components and metabolites) with safety and efficacy parameters, Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) until death or removal from study for any reason. s Blood samples to be obtained 1.5 ± 0.5 h, 5 ± 1 h, 7 ± 1 h postdose on Day 1 of Cycle 1 only.
Advanced non-small cell lung cancer is relatively unresponsive to chemotherapy. This is true for the nucleoside analogue gemcitabine, with a response rate of approximately 10%, as well as for 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Even when gemcitabine is combined with other chemotherapeutic drugs or biological agents, the overall tumor response rate remains basically unchanged. S-1 is a new generation oral fluoropyrimidine that combines Tegafur (5-fluoro-1-(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-2,4(1H,3H)-pyrimidinedione \[FT\]), an oral prodrug of 5-FU, with two modulators, Gimeracil (5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine \[CDHP\]), which inhibits 5-FU degradation by dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) inhibition, and Oteracil potassium (Oxo), which inhibits 5-FU phosphorylation in the digestive tract. This combination of 3 compounds is designed to achieve enhanced antitumor activity while decreasing gastrointestinal toxicity.

This is an open-label, multicenter, single-arm, 3-stage, Phase 2 study evaluating the efficacy and safety of single agent S-1 as 2nd line therapy for patients with advanced NSCLC. The 3 stages of this study correspond to a futility stage (stage 1), a decision stage (stage 2), and a stage for improvement of precision of ORR (stage 3).