Flavopiridol, Cytarabine, and Mitoxantrone in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Leukemia
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as flavopiridol, cytarabine, and mitoxantrone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving a new schedule of more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells. This phase I trial is studying the side effects, best dose, and best schedule for flavopiridol when given together with cytarabine and mitoxantrone in treating patients with relapsed or refractory acute leukemia.
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Malignant Neoplasm|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: alvocidib|DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: mitoxantrone hydrochloride|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated dose determined by dose-limiting toxicities graded according to NCI-CTC version 3.0, Up to 63 days
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the toxicities of escalating doses of flavopiridol administered by "hybrid" bolus-infusion schedule and given in timed sequence with cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride in patients with refractory or relapsed acute leukemia.

II. Determine the incidence of clinical response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of flavopiridol. Patients receive flavopiridol IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, and 3.

Patients receive cytarabine IV continuously over 72 hours beginning on day 6 and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 60-120 minutes on day 9. Treatment repeats every 35-63 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of flavopiridol until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 1 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Serum and bone marrow samples are collected at baseline, during, and after completion of treatment for future studies. Flavopiridol levels are measured at baseline and on days 1-3 for pharmacokinetics.