Phase I, Dose-Escalation Study of Soluble Beta-Glucan (SBG) in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
Soluble Beta-Glucan (SBG) is a compound prepared from commercial active dry Baker's yeast which is then proceeded through a multi-step laboratory processes invented by Prof. Rapepun Wititsuwannakul, Faculty of Science, Prince of Songkla University, Thailand. Based upon pre-clinical data, SBG has been shown to inhibit angiogenesis and probably enhance immune function, leading to shrinkage of tumor size in athymic nude mice injected by hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HepG2) and cervical cancer cells. Therefore, the investigators expect to see the safety and anti-cancer property of SBG in patients with advanced cancer whom no available therapy can be offered.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: SBG
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) to define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). The DLT is defined as treatment related grade 3 or grade 4 adverse events or abnormal lab test that occurred in the first 28 days after start of study drug., continuous monitoring for the first 28 days after start of the study medication
Antitumor activity by comparing baseline and post-treatment changes. Tumor assessment will be performed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, baseline and then once every 2 months thereafter, baseline, month 2, month 4, month 6 and month 8
Soluble Beta-Glucan (SBG) is a compound prepared from commercial active dry Baker's yeast which is then proceeded through a multi-step laboratory processes invented by Prof. Rapepun Wititsuwannakul, Faculty of Science, Prince of Songkla University, Thailand. Based upon pre-clinical data, SBG has been shown to inhibit angiogenesis and probably enhance immune function, leading to shrinkage of tumor size in athymic nude mice injected by hepatocellular carcinoma cells (HepG2) and cervical cancer cells. Therefore, the investigators expect to see the safety and anti-cancer property of SBG in patients with advanced cancer whom no available therapy can be offered.