Study of the MUC1 Peptide-Poly-ICLC Adjuvant Vaccine in Individuals With Advanced Colorectal Adenoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the immune response to MUC1 - poly-ICLC vaccine, an investigational or study vaccine. The MUC1 - poly-ICLC vaccine is being tested in persons with a history of advanced adenomatous polyps, the precursor to colorectal cancer. The MUC1 - poly-ICLC vaccine is being developed to prevent polyps from advancing into colon cancer and to prevent polyps from recurring.

MUC1 is mucus that is normally present on the lining of the human colon. However, MUC1 is expressed in a larger amount and in a modified form on adenomatous polyps and colorectal cancer. These changes in MUC1 are thought to be part of the process of progression from adenomas toward cancer. The goal of a vaccine is to help the immune system in the body identify the changes in MUC1 that accompany the progression to cancer and eliminate the abnormal cells that make abnormal MUC1.
Risk for Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: MUC1 - Poly ICLC
Number of Participants With Anti Muc-1 Antibody, Evaluation of the immune response to MUC1 peptide vaccine administered with Poly-ICLC, measured by Anti MUC1 antibody, in patients with a history of advanced colorectal adenoma., 52 weeks
Number of Participants With Autoimmune Response to Muc-1 Vaccine, Evaluate for autoimmune response by measuring the Anti-muc-1 IgG antibodies to the muc-1 vaccine., 52 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Associated With the Study Agent, Laboratory monitoring including Toxicity laboratory test or monitored through out the study up to week 54., 54 weeks
This is a phase II trial designed to assess antibody and T cell responses to MUC1 vaccine among subjects at increased risk for colorectal cancer by virtue of a history of advanced adenoma. The primary objective is to evaluate the immunogenicity of a combination of the 100mer MUC1 peptide and adjuvant Poly-ICLC in boosting the immune response to MUC1. Among the secondary objectives is to determine if anti-MUC1 immunity, preexisting or vaccine induced, has an effect on the recurrence of polyps. Subjects with a history of advanced adenoma will be recruited for MUC1 vaccination. Vaccine will be administered at weeks 0, 2, and 10. Some subjects may have pre-existing immunity to MUC1, and this will be accounted for in the analytic phase. However, all subjects will be administered the vaccine, regardless of baseline antibody status. To insure accurate standardization in measurement and assessment of antibody levels, assays for baseline antibody status will be done at the same time as those for response to vaccine.