Study of Difluoromethylornithine (DFMO) in Combination With Bortezomib for Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate an investigational drug (DFMO) in combination with bortezomib, for relapsed and refractory neuroblastoma. DFMO is an investigational drug because it has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This study will look at the safety and tolerability of DFMO in combination with bortezomib as well as the tumors response to this study drug.
Neuroblastoma Recurrent
DRUG: DFMO|DRUG: Bortezomib
Number of Participants With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Phase I- To determine the safety and tolerability of DFMO in combination with bortezomib at 3 dose levels of DFMO: 1500mg/m2 twice daily, 2000mg/m2 twice daily, and 2500mg/m2 twice daily in subjects with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma who receive one full cycle of this dose.

Phase II- Study did not enroll to Phase II. Study completed at end of Phase I., Adverse Events were collected starting with the date of the first dose of study drug until 30 days after last dose of study drug, ongoing related adverse events were continued to be followed until resolution, on average 6 months.
Determine the Overall Response Rate (ORR) of Participants Using RECIST Criteria, To determine the overall response rate (ORR) by the presence of radiologically assessable disease by cross-sectional imaging and in MIBG (meta-iodobenzylguanidine) or PET (positron emission computed tomography) scans. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI imaging and/or by MIBG or PET scans: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD), At least a 20% increase in the sum of the disease measurements for measurable lesions, Stable Disease, Neither sufficient decrease to qualify for PR or sufficient increase to qualify for PD from study entry. Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Followed until off therapy, generally 1 year|Determine the Progression Free Survival (PFS) of Participants Using Days Until Progression, Time to progression (PFS), defined as the period from the start of the treatment until the criteria for progression are met taking as reference the screening measurements. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the disease measurements for measurable lesions, taking as reference the smallest disease measurement recorded since the start of treatment (nadir), and minimum 5 mm increase over the nadir or the appearance of one or more new lesions or appearance of positive bone marrow., From date of start of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 1 year
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate an investigational drug (DFMO) in combination with bortezomib, for relapsed and refractory neuroblastoma. DFMO is an investigational drug because it has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). This study will look at the safety and tolerability of DFMO in combination with bortezomib as well as the tumors response to this study drug.