Ficlatuzumab and Cetuximab in Recurrent/Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC)
The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is both oncogene and prognostic biomarker in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). EGFR's functional importance in HNSCC resulted in development of the first molecularly targeted strategy, the anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody cetuximab. Given the lack of therapeutic options for patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC after failure of cetuximab, there is strong scientific interest in understanding resistance in order to identify new therapies for this population. A possible resistance mechanism to anti-EGFR therapy in HNSCC is primary or compensatory activation of alternate growth factor receptors including c-Met. The MET oncogene encodes c-Met, an RTK bound exclusively by the ligand, hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). The HGF/c-Met signaling pathway converges with the EGFR network at both the PI3K/Akt and MAPK nodes. Laboratory data suggest the ability for reciprocal compensation between EGFR and c-Met. We hypothesize that HGF/c-Met pathway inhibition may overcome resistance to cetuximab in patients with HNSCC, such as those with clinical cetuximab resistance.

Ficlatuzumab (AV-299) is a humanized HGF-inhibitory immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody. The primary objective of this phase 1b study is to find the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the combination of ficlatuzumab and cetuximab in patients with recurrent/metastaticHNSCC. The dose-finding study design will follow a Narayana k-in-a-row design with k set to 2 to target a 33% rate of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). In the dose-finding phase, a total of 8 patients will be treated if no DLTs are observed or 14 patients if at least one DLT occurs. An expansion cohort will then proceed at RP2D until 12 patients have been treated at that dose level with the combination of ficlatuzumab and cetuximab. We will evaluate biomarkers of HGF/cMet pathway activation in baseline tissue, plasma and immune cells for a preliminary relationship with clinical activity.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell of Head and Neck|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Head And Neck
DRUG: Ficlatuzumab|DRUG: Cetuximab
Establish the recommended-for-phase II dose (RP2D) of the combination of ficlatuzumab and cetuximab., A dose escalation/de-escalation plan will be conducted according to an adaptive Narayana k-in-a-row design.45 We will select the dose of ficlatuzumab that is close to but does not exceed a 33% dose limiting toxicity (DLT) rate when administered with a fixed q2week dose of cetuximab. The observation period for identifying a DLT will be the first cycle, which consists of two doses of ficlatuzumab, or 4 weeks.In the dose-finding phase, a total of 8 patients will be treated if no DLTs are observed or 14 patients if at least one DLT occurs. If no DLTs are observed among the first 8 patients, the recommended for phase 2 dose (RP2D) will be set to dose tier 2. If a DLT is observed and 14 patients are treated and observed, the RP2D will be estimated from DLTs across all dose levels by isotonic regression. More than one patient can be enrolled at the same time., 1 year
Preliminary clinical efficacy of the combination of cetuximab and ficlatuzumab in patients with R/M HNSCC, including PFS, RR, and OS., Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1). Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used.

Progression-free survival (PFS) will be calculated from treatment initiation to disease progression or death from any cause or last follow up.

Survival will be measured from the date of entry on study. The preliminary clinical efficacy of the combination of cetuximab and ficlatuzumab will be described according to RR, median PFS, and median OS in: 1) the entire study population; 2) patients with prior cetuximab exposure treated at RP2D., 5 year|Evaluate the relationship between tumor HGF and c-Met expression in baseline research biopsies and preliminary efficacy data, HNSCC tumors overexpress both HGF and c-Met as compared to adjacent tissue. The relationship of percent change in baseline sum diameter of index lesions to baseline cMet and HGF will be characterized by a linear, or if necessary, generalized linear or nonlinear regression model with appropriate confidence intervals.This exploratory endpoint seeks an early indication that overexpression of cMet or its ligand, HGF, may predict benefit from ficlatuzumab. For purposes of this endpoint, both cMet and HGF expression levels will be reported as semi-quantitative H-scores., 5 years|Describe biomarkers of HGF/c-Met and EGFR pathway activation in archived and baseline tumor biopsies, The prevalence of several mutations in HNSCC which interact with the HGF/c-Met signaling pathway have been identified, and may modulate the impact of pathway antagonism.These include PIK3CA (8%), PTEN (8%), and HRAS (4%) mutations.This will be evaluated by by whole exome sequencing., 5 years|Evaluate peripheral (blood) pharmacodynamic biomarkers of HGF/c-Met and EGFR pathway activation to correlate with preliminary efficacy data, Additional biomarkers in tumor and blood will be quantitatively measured and will be evaluated as predictors of tumor response and/or PFS in appropriate generalized linear models. Calculated p values for testing the significance of the prediction models will be adjusted for false discovery by the method of Benjamini and Hochberg, 5 years|Describe dendritic and T cell phenotypes in archived and baseline tumor biopsies, HNSCC is an immunosuppressive disease. Patients demonstrate lower absolute lymphocyte counts than healthy subjects, impaired natural killer (NK) cell activity and poor antigen-presenting function. Mechanistically, HGF inhibits dendritic cell activation. Dendritic cell and T cell phenotypes will be evaluated in archived biopsies (prior to cetuximab resistance) and pre ficlatuzumab research biopsies., 5 years|Evaluate pharmacodynamic biomarkers of peripheral T cell and NK cell activation to correlate with preliminary efficacy data, Additional biomarkers in tumor and blood will be quantitatively measured and will be evaluated as predictors of tumor response and/or PFS in appropriate generalized linear models. Calculated p values for testing the significance of the prediction models will be adjusted for false discovery by the method of Benjamini and Hochberg.Peripheral T cell and NK cell activity will be analyzed longitudinally before, during and after exposure to ficlatuzumab., 5 years|Describe toxicity and patient-reported quality of life, All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their first treatment with ficlatuzumab. The proportion of DLTs in each dosing cohort will be reported, as will the proportion of AEs in accordance with NCI CTCAE v.4 grading criteria., 5 years
This is a phase 1b, single arm, open-labeled study of ficlatuzumab and cetuximab in recurrent/metastatic HNSCC with biomarker correlatives. The primary objective of this study is to establish the recommended-for-phase II dose (RP2D) of the combination of ficlatuzumab and Cetuximab. In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse event(s), treatment may continue until disease progression or until one of the following criteria applies:

* Disease progression,
* Intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment,
* Unacceptable adverse event(s),
* Patient decides to withdraw from the study, or
* General or specific changes in the patients condition render the patient unacceptable for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.

After progressive disease, subjects will be followed for survival every 3 months for 2 years.

Cetuximab and ficlatuzumab are administered every other week on day 1 and 15 of a 28-day cycle. Ficlatuzumab will be administered as an IV infusion, over 30-60 minutes,10 mg/kg every 2 weeks, on the same day as the first dose of cetuximab. Ficlatuzumab will be administered 30-60 minutes after the completion of the cetuximab infusion. Cetuximab will be administered prior to ficlatuzumab as an IV infusion. The first dose will be administered over 120 minutes (± 15 minutes). Subsequent doses may be infused over 60 minutes (± 15 minutes).The starting dose of cetuximab (dose tier 1) will be 500 mg/m2 every 2 weeks.

Subjects will be monitored for adverse events and toxicity during study treatment and for 30 days after last dose of ficlatuzumab. Blood will be drawn for correlative studies at baseline, and at the end of every even cycle. Prior to initiation of protocol treatment, patients will undergo a mandatory research biopsy.