Benzoylphenylurea in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of benzoylphenylurea in treating patients with advanced cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: benzoylphenylurea|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) defined as the highest dose level where 0/6 or 1/6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) as assessed by CTCAE version 3.0, 8 weeks|DLT defined as grade 3 or worse non-hematologic and sustained (> 5 days) grade 3 hematologic toxicity or grade 4 hematologic toxicity of any duration, and the moderate toxicity is grade 2 toxicity as assessed by CTCAE version 3.0, 8 weeks|Pharmacokinetics of benzoylphenylurea, Relationships between drug exposure and toxicity, efficacy, and biological endpoints will be explored using univariate and multivariate analysis techniques., At baseline, at 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours (weeks 1 and 6)
Response (complete and partial response) rate, Response rate will be evaluated for all patients with measurable disease and will be obtained by dividing the total number of responses by all patients with measurable disease and reported with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 7 years|Survival, The median and landmark survivals will be estimated utilizing the Kaplan- Meier method., From the date of first treatment until death or last follow-up, assessed up to 7 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the dose-limiting toxicity and the maximum tolerated dose of benzoylphenylurea in patients with advanced malignancy.

II. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive oral benzoylphenylurea weekly for 6 weeks. Courses repeat every 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of benzoylphenylurea until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-30 patients will be accrued for this study.