PET Imaging With Cu-64 Labeled Trastuzumab in HER2+ Metastatic Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to learn more about how a new study agent works inside the body. The study agent is a protein called 64Cu-trastuzumab. This is a radioactive tracer that was developed at MSKCC to target HER2 protein on cancer cells. A radioactive tracer is a small amount of radioactive dye that follows something else that is not radioactive In this study the study agent, 64Cu-trastuzumab, is the tracer and what's being followed is trastuzumab (Herceptin™). By giving you this tracer after you have treatment with trastuzumab (Herceptin™), we will be able to use PET scans to show us which parts of your body and tumor sites the Herceptin goes to. This will help us to understand better how Herceptin works in the body to fight cancer.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: PET Imaging With Cu-64 Labeled Trastuzumab|RADIATION: PET Imaging With Cu-64 Labeled Trastuzumab
test safety & feas of (PET) imaging w radiolabeled 64Cu-trastuzumab to determine dosimetry & biodistribution of trastuzumab, using a radiotracer dilution technique w copper-64 labeled trastuzumab, conclusion of study
to determine reproducibility of the measurement of the Standardized Uptake Value (SUV) in normal organs and tumors in a sub-cohort of 8 patients who will undergo two injections of the tracer., conclusion of study|to determine the pharmacokinetic profile of the 64Cu-trastuzumab radiotracer., conclusion of study
The purpose of this study is to learn more about how a new study agent works inside the body. The study agent is a protein called 64Cu-trastuzumab. This is a radioactive tracer that was developed at MSKCC to target HER2 protein on cancer cells. A radioactive tracer is a small amount of radioactive dye that follows something else that is not radioactive In this study the study agent, 64Cu-trastuzumab, is the tracer and what's being followed is trastuzumab (Herceptin™). By giving you this tracer after you have treatment with trastuzumab (Herceptin™), we will be able to use PET scans to show us which parts of your body and tumor sites the Herceptin goes to. This will help us to understand better how Herceptin works in the body to fight cancer.