Cell-Free DNA and RNA in Blood fromMetastatic Prostate Cancer Patients
This research trial studies cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) in blood from patients with prostate cancer that does not respond to hormone therapy and has spread to other places in the body. Studying samples of blood from patients with prostate cancer may help doctors to learn more about the changes that occur in tumor cells over time and how they become resistant to anti-cancer drugs.
Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Change in AR-V7 presence, Each of the 4 longitudinal cohorts will be analyzed separately (at least initially). Kaplan-Meier-like curves (likely adjusted for interval censoring) will be used to display the development of AR-V7 positivity. To complement the analysis of Cohort A, an exact logistic regression analysis will be used with the data from Cohort X with AR-V7 splice variant positivity as the dependent variable and time since start of ADT as the independent variable. Logistic regression will be used to assess the association between AR-V7 status at start of treatment and overall response to treatment., Baseline to 3 years|Expression level of AR-V7 in serum cfRNA assessed by quantitative RT-PCR, Detectable AR-V7 will be associated with a shortened duration of treatment benefit (ADT, abiraterone, enzalutamide, docetaxel). Each of the 4 longitudinal cohorts will be analyzed separately (at least initially). A regression analysis based on the Cox proportional hazards model (if proportional hazards holds) will be used to assess the association between AR-V7 and time to new treatment. Initially, only the baseline AR-V7 status will be used. Next, AR-V7 will be included as a time dependent covariate; the model used may be modified to accommodate competing risks (if too many switch treatment p, Up to 3 years|Time to start of another treatment, Time from start of treatment until the time that the patient begins another therapy, assessed up to 3 years
Expression levels of AR-Vs (other than AR-V7) in serum cfRNA assessed by quantitative RT-PCR, Up to 3 years|Tumor response as measured by Prostate Cancer Working Group, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To document the appearance of androgen receptor isoform splice variant 7 (AR-V7) expression over the course of therapy in castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).

II. To determine whether detectable AR-V7 is associated with a shortened duration of treatment benefit of abiraterone or enzalutamide.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine how the presence and expression level of AR-V7 impacts response to docetaxel.

II. To determine at what point AR-V7 arises during androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) and how its presence and expression corresponds to castration resistance.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if androgen receptor isoform splice variants (AR-Vs) other than AR-V7 play a role in resistance and / or response to the therapies explored in this study.

II. To determine if, in patients who do not express mutations in androgen receptor (AR), other genetic alterations are associated with treatment outcomes to the therapies explored in this study.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo blood collection every 4-12 weeks during ADT, abiraterone and / or enzalutamide and docetaxel. Patients switched from ADT to either abiraterone or enzalutamide during the study will undergo phlebotomy every 6-12 weeks. Samples are analyzed for cell-free ribonucleic acid (cfRNA), cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA), AR-V7, and other AR-Vs via quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 3 years.