The SEA CHANGE Study: A Self Management Intervention for Head and Neck Cancer Survivors
This study aims to test the feasibility of implementing the Self-Management after Cancer of the Head and Neck Group Intervention (SEA-CHANGE), designed to promote quality of life and participation in life activities and reduce distress in people who have completed primary treatment for head and neck cancer as compared to usual care.
Head and Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: SEA CHANGE intervention
Change in the Functional Assessment of the Cancer Therapy scale (FACT-G and Head and Neck Cancer Subscale (FACT H&N)) from baseline up to 12 months, FACT-G consists of 4 domains and 27 statements, asking participants to consider the previous week and rate their Quality of life (QoL) across physical, social/family, emotional, and functional domains on a five point likert scale (0-4). FACT H\&N comprises 12 statements about HNC specific challenges and can be used independently of the FACT-G to indicate HNC specific QoL. Higher domain scores indicate higher QoL (Maximum domain scores: Physical 28; Social/Family 28; Emotional 24; Functional 28; FACT H\&N subscale 48). The FACT-G and FACT H\&N subscale have been widely used and validated and are commonly used to assess the QoL of HNC survivors., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months
Changes in The Distress Thermometer scale from baseline up to 12 months, The distress thermometer measures an individuals level of distress during the past week and is scored on a 0 to 10 point Likert scale with 0 indicating "No distress" and 10 indicating "Extreme distress". Scores of 4 or more indicate moderate to extreme distress., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months|Changes in the Social Role Participation Questionnaire (SRPQ) from baseline up to 12 months, The SRPQ assesses an individual's perceptions of: 1) the importance of participation in diverse roles; 2) restrictions in role participation; and 3) satisfaction with performance in social roles. Mean scores are calculated separately for each of the 3 social role dimensions on Likert scales: 1) salience or role importance (scores; 1 "Not at all important" to 5 "Extremely important"); 2) physical difficulty with each role (i.e., role limitations) (scoring; 1 "No difficulty" to 4 "Unable to do") and 3) satisfaction with role performance (scoring; 1 "Not satisfied" to 5 "Extremely satisfied"). Because individuals may not engage in all roles, mean role satisfaction scores are calculated if participants respond to at least 9 of 12 role domains., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months|Changes in the Fear of Recurrence/Relapse Scale from baseline up to 12 months, The Fear of Recurrence/Relapse Scale is a five-item scale measuring patients' beliefs about recurrence of their cancer using 5-point Likert scales from 1 (Strongly agree) to 5 (Strongly disagree). Scores range from 5-25 and higher scores reflect a greater fear of cancer relapse., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months|Changes in the UK Cancer Costs Questionnaire (UKCC) from baseline up to 12 months, The UKCC is a modular questionnaire designed to capture the resources used by people with a current or previous diagnosis of cancer. Each question can be used in isolation. Captured activity includes primary care usage, community care usage, medications and personal social services. Societal costs are also captured including patient out-of-pocket costs, costs incurred by carers and time taken off work. The questionnaire has been appropriately modified for the Irish context., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months
Changes in the Cancer Survivors' Self-efficacy Scale (CS-SES) from baseline up to 12 months, The CS-SES measures self-efficacy in cancer survivors' by assessing confidence in performing various disease-related activities. The scale consists of 11 items scored on a 10 point scale with 1 being "not at all confident" to 10 being "totally confident". An overall score is determined using the mean of the 11 items., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months|Changes in the Cognitive Emotional Regulation Questionnaire (CERQ) from baseline up to 12 months, The CERQ measures what an individual thinks after experiencing threatening or stressful life events using a 36 item questionnaire focused on 9 domains; self-blame, blaming others, rumination, catastrophizing, putting into perspective, positive refocusing, positive reappraisal, acceptance and planning. Each item is scored on a Likert scale ranging from 1 (Almost never) to 5 (Almost always). Individual sub-scales are calculated by summing the scores from individual sub-scales with a range from 4 to 20., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months|Changes in the Health Education Impact Questionnaire (HEIQ) from baseline up to 12 months, The HEIQ is used as a measure of health education/ self-management behaviors in eight domains; Health Directed Behavior, Positive and Active Engagement in Life, Emotional Well-being, Self-monitoring and Insight, Constructive Attitudes and Approaches, Skills and Technique Acquisition, Social Integration and Support, and Health Service Navigation. Individuals are asked to indicate their level of agreement with 42 statements across the eight domains on four point Likert scales (1 "strongly disagree" to 4 "Strongly agree"). Higher scores indicate greater performance of specific self-management behaviors. Higher scores on the emotional well-being domain denote higher levels of negative affect. Each domain is used individually by calculating the mean score., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months|Changes in the Patient Activation Measure (PAM) from baseline up to 12 months, PAM assesses an individual's knowledge, skills and confidence for self-management. The measure contains 13 items measured on 4 point Likert scales (1 "Strongly disagree" to 4 "Strongly agree"). A total score is derived by dividing the raw score by the number of items answered and multiplying by 13. Calibration tables are used to apply a range of 1-100 with higher scores indicating higher patient activation., 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months|Changes in lifestyle behaviours from baseline up to 12 months, Alcohol and tobacco use, 12 months; change from baseline (before randomisation) to post intervention, 6 months and 12 months
Head and neck cancer (HNC) and its treatment are associated with specific challenges such as facial disfigurement and impairments in speech, breathing and swallowing, and can have a negative impact on well-being. Self-management interventions can provide people with skills to deal with health-related problems, maintain life roles, and manage negative emotions, and have been found to increase confidence, improve quality of life, and reduce health service use across a range of chronic conditions.

The aim of this study is to pilot a self-management intervention (SEA-CHANGE) designed to promote quality of life and participation in life activities, and reduce distress in people who have completed primary treatment for HNC as compared to usual care. The study includes: (1) a pilot randomised study to assess the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention and its related procedures; (2) a qualitative process evaluation of the intervention; and (3) a systematic decision-making process regarding progression to a definitive trial. The expected outcome is a self-management intervention that is feasible and acceptable to HNC survivors and has the potential to realise both health benefits and economic gains.