Detection of Clinically Significant Prostate Cancer Using Transperineal Targeted Biopsy Compared to Standard Transrectal Biopsy
Prostate biopsies are currently the gold standard for the diagnosis of prostate cancer. Many biopsies, however, are unnecessary or cannot detect significant prostate cancer (PCa). With multi-parametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) we now potentially have a way of increasing the detection of detecting clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa) while decreasing the detection of non-significant PCa.
Prostate Cancer|Magnetic Resonance Imaging|Target Lesion|Fusion Biopsy|Clinically Significant Prostate Cancer|Transperineal
DEVICE: MRI/ultrasound transperineal prostate biopsy|DEVICE: transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy
Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Prostate Cancer, Number of subjects with positive clinically significant prostate cancer results, Within 2-4 wks after biopsy
Overall Detection Rate of Prostate Cancer Between Arm A mpMRI+ and Arm B, Number of overall positive prostate cancer (Combined positive and clinically significant positive results) Not all positive prostate biopsies are considered clinically significant. Clinically significant results indicate further work up and/or treatment. Physicians and patients may choose not to just monitor non-clinically significant prostate results for future changes. The overall detection rate will report the total number of both non-clinically significant positive results and clinically significant results., Within 2-4 wks from biopsy|Comparison of UTI Incidence in Arm A mpMRI+ and Arm B, Number of confirmed UTIs, From the time of biopsy through 4 weeks post-biopsy
In men with previously negative prostate biopsy and persistent elevated prostate-specific antigen (PSA) value, it is unclear which biopsy strategy offers the highest detection rate for significant prostate cancer. The hypothesis of this study is that targeted MRI/ultrasound fusion-guided biopsy improves the detection rates of clinically significant prostate cancers (csPCa) compared with systematic transrectal ultrasound-guided prostate biopsy.

Patients who fulfill all eligibility criteria and have provided written consent will be randomized to undergo MRI followed by biopsies (arm A) or TRUS transrectal biopsy (arm-B). Patients will be randomly assigned to arm A or arm B following a 1:1 simple randomization procedure according to a computer-generated randomization list. The primary end point will be the comparison of detection rates csPCa between arm A and arm B. csPCa will be defined according to the Standards of Reporting for MRI-targeted Biopsy Studies (START) criteria for targeted biopsy Gleason Score ≥ 7 or maximum CCL ≥ 5 mm and the updated Epstein criteria for SB (Gleason score ≥ 7, PSA density ≥ 0.15, Gleason score ≥ 2 positive cores, and bilateral cancer). The secondary end points will be (1) Comparison of the overall detection rate of PCa and csPCa between arm A mpMRI+ and arm B and (2) Comparison of complication rates between arm A mpMRI+ and arm B.