Care Plans for Cancer Predisposition
Develop and evaluate acceptability, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of digital care plan and accompanying text message reminders for children and adolescents with a known Cancer Predisposition Syndromes (CPS).
Genetic Predisposition
OTHER: Digital Care Plans
Change in Knowledge Score of participating family members, Change in knowledge score for participating family members will be measured by participants completion of electronic questionnaires administered via REDCap. The change in the mean and standard deviation will be assessed at 3 months and 6 months. A higher score indicates greater knowledge of care plans content., 3 months and 6 months after receipt of digital care plan
Acceptability of use of digital care plans for CPS for participating family members, Acceptability will be measured by participants completion of electronic questionnaires administered via REDCap. Acceptability ratings will be documented with standard descriptive statistics such as means and frequencies. A higher score indicates indicates higher satisfaction, perceived appropriateness, positive effect, demand, and potential for future use., 3 months after receipt of digital care plan|Feasibility of use of digital care plans for CPS for patients diagnosed within 5 years, Feasibility will be assessed with absence of technical difficulties allowing the Clinical Research Coordinator (CRC) to create care plan in under 15 minutes in a busy clinical setting., Up to 6 months after receipt of digital care plan|Satisfaction with decision to have germline testing, Satisfaction with decision to have germline testing will be measured by participants completion of electronic questionnaires administered via REDCap. The change in the mean and standard deviation will be assessed at 3 months and 6 months and compared to baseline. A higher score indicates greater satisfaction with decision to have child genetically tested., Up to 6 months after receipt of digital care plan|Change in cancer-related anxiety, Cancer-related anxiety will be measured by participants completion of electronic questionnaires administered via REDCap. The change in the mean and standard deviation will be assessed at 3 months and 6 months and compared to baseline. A higher score indicates greater cancer-related stress., Up to 6 months after receipt of digital care plan|Change in distress after receiving genetic test results, Distress after receipt of genetic test results will be measured by participants completion of electronic questionnaires administered via REDCap. The change in the mean and standard deviation will be assessed at 3 months and 6 months and compared to baseline. A higher score indicates greater distress about genetic test result disclosure., Up to 6 months after receipt of digital care plan
As over 15% of pediatric cancers are associated with a cancer predisposition, it is increasingly becoming standard of care for children with cancer, as well as those with suspected hereditary risk, to be evaluated for germline cancer predisposition. Unfortunately, the increase in pediatric genetic testing has exceeded the pace of research supporting effective cancer surveillance in positive cases. Additionally, guidelines for cancer predisposition management are not easily accessed or understood by families; thus, there is often a disconnect between the understanding and retention of such information relayed to families.

In this study, Investigators will develop and evaluate the acceptability, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of digital care plans for Cancer Predisposition Syndromes (CPS) with accompanying text message reminders for children and adolescents with a known CPS. Digital care plans and text messages will be created for 10 common CPS. Investigators will use a quasi-experimental design with pre and post testing of the same cohort, before and after delivery of care plan and accompanying messages. To evaluate the impact of the digital care plans, Investigators will compare assessments of the same cohorts at 3 and 6 months time points.