Effectiveness of an Individualized Program of Muscular Strength and Endurance Program for Improving Germ Cell Cancer
Background: Patients with testicular germ cell cancer (GCC) have a high cure rate, however impaired muscle function and fatigue are the most common complications among patients with GCC undergoing treatment with chemotherapy. Although exercise is widely recommended, information about physiopathological effects of cancer therapy in skeletal muscle is very limited.

Methods/Design: The present study is a randomized controlled trial comparing an individualized program of muscular strength and endurance with aerobic training compared to a control group. All variables will be measured at the beginning and at the end of a 8-week intervention by the same evaluator, who will hide the disposition of participants to each group. Besides, it will be monitoring during de following 6 months (24 weeks) after training for all outcome variables.
Testicular Germ Cell Cancer
DEVICE: Aerobic program
Cancer-related fatigue QuickPiper scale, The primary outcome will be fatigue, assessed by the revised Cancer-related fatigue QuickPiper scale, with the semi-structured interview used by Cella et al (1998) to define phenotype of CRF, 20 minutes
Sf-12, The state of physical and mental health, 10 min|EuroQoL-5D, Quality of life, 10 min|Profile of Mood States, It is possible to obtain an overall index of altered mood and seven partial measures: stress / anxiety, depression / rejection, anger / hostility, vigor / activity, fatigue / inertia and confusion / bewilderment, 10 min|Physical condition test, strength peak of knee extension (quadriceps), knee flexion (hamstring), elbow extension (brachial triceps) and elbow flexion (biceps brachii) by one dynamometry instrumented with Powertruck II of JTECH, following the protocol described by Daniels \& Worthingham (1995). Hand grip strength will be evaluated by the hydraulic dynamometer JAMAR, 20 min|C-reactive protein (CRP), It will be measured in blood samples following clinical standards in 10 ml venous blood, 20 min|Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha (TNF-a), It will be measured in blood samples following clinical standards in 10 ml venous blood sample., 20 min|Interleukin-6 (IL-6), Interleukin-18 (IL-18), Interleukin-4 (IL-4) and Interleukin-10 (IL 10), It will be measured in blood samples following clinical standards in 10 ml venous blood, 20 min|high density lipoprotein (HDL), low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, triglycerides, It will be measured in blood samples following clinical standards in 10 ml venous blood, 20 min
Background: Patients with testicular germ cell cancer (GCC) have a high cure rate, however impaired muscle function and fatigue are the most common complications among patients with GCC undergoing treatment with chemotherapy. Although exercise is widely recommended, information about physiopathological effects of cancer therapy in skeletal muscle is very limited. Our aim is to evaluate the effects of an individualized exercise program with aerobic training in water running on cancer-related fatigue.

Methods/Design: The present study is a randomized controlled trial comparing an individualized program of muscular strength and endurance with aerobic training compared to a control group. The investigators will conduct this trial in patients undergoing chemotherapy, recruited by the Departament of Oncology of Virgen de la Victoria Hospital (Málaga). Patients will be included and evaluated before the first cycle of chemotherapy and assigned experimental or control group randomly. All variables will be measured at the beginning and at the end of a 8-week intervention by the same evaluator, who will hide the disposition of participants to each group. Besides, it will be monitoring during de following 6 months (24 weeks) after training for all outcome variables.