Phase I Oral mTOR Inhibitor RAD001 in Combo w/ Capecitabine for Metastatic Breast
In order to improve the survival of metastatic breast patients, it is important to investigate the use of novel therapeutic agents combined with known active agents in the treatment of breast cancer. This is a phase I study evaluating the maximum tolerated doses and toxicities of RAD001 in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. RAD001 (INN: everolimus) is a novel macrolide, which is being developed as an antiproliferative drug with applications as an immunosuppressant and anticancer agent. Phase I trials in patients with solid tumors have shown that treatment with RAD001 is well-tolerated with a minimal side effect profile. Capecitabine (Xeloda, Roche) is an oral fluoropyrimidine that was approved in 1998 for the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer. The all-oral regimen of RAD001 with capecitabine is an attractive approach as the treatment of metastatic breast cancer has not yet proven to be curative. We also want to find out what possible benefit this combination of drugs might have on treating your cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: RAD001
Using three cohorts of patients with fixed dosing of capecitabine in combination with increasing doses of RAD001, the maximum tolerated doses and toxicities will be determined., Measured at baseline and before every other cycle.
Tumor response, After every two cyclescycles (six weeks) of therapy for the first four cycles, then after every three cycles (nine weeks) for the remainder of the first year, then every four cycles (12 weeks).
In order to improve the survival of metastatic breast patients, it is important to investigate the use of novel therapeutic agents combined with known active agents in the treatment of breast cancer. This is a phase I study evaluating the maximum tolerated doses and toxicities of RAD001 in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. RAD001 (INN: everolimus) is a novel macrolide, which is being developed as an antiproliferative drug with applications as an immunosuppressant and anticancer agent. Phase I trials in patients with solid tumors have shown that treatment with RAD001 is well-tolerated with a minimal side effect profile. Capecitabine (Xeloda, Roche) is an oral fluoropyrimidine that was approved in 1998 for the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer. The all-oral regimen of RAD001 with capecitabine is an attractive approach as the treatment of metastatic breast cancer has not yet proven to be curative. We also want to find out what possible benefit this combination of drugs might have on treating your cancer.