Lenvatinib and Pembrolizumab in Differentiated Thyroid Cancers (DTC)
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab and lenvatinib work in treating patients with differentiated thyroid cancer that has spread to other places in the body or has come back and cannot be removed by surgery. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Columnar Cell Variant Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Follicular Variant Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Metastatic Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma|Metastatic Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Poorly Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Recurrent Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Recurrent Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma|Recurrent Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Stage III Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Tall Cell Variant Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Thyroid Gland Hurthle Cell Carcinoma|Unresectable Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Unresectable Thyroid Gland Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Lenvatinib Mesylate|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Complete Response Rate (Cohort 1), Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Will use a one-stage binomial design., 26 months|Confirmed Response Rate (Cohort 2), Assessed by RECIST 1.1. Will use a 2-stage Simon Optimal MinMax design., 27 months
Number of Patients Experiencing Grade 3+ Adverse Events, Assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03. All patients that have initiated treatment will be considered evaluable for assessing adverse events. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns. Only the grade 2+ adverse events will be assessed, regardless of relationship to the study treatment., 27 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), The distribution of survival at 12 months will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., 12 months
Biomarker Levels Analysis Following Pembrolizumab and Lenvatinib Combination Therapy, All analyses with respect to the translational component of this study are intended to be hypothesis-generating and descriptive in manner. Clinical data (i.e. CR rates confirmed response rates, PFS, OS, etc.) will be correlated with tumor marker data of interest (CD8+, PD-L1, PD-L2, T cell functional capacity markers, anti-thyroglobulin antibody levels, tumor mutation status, and other markers). The Chi-Square (or Fisher's Exact test) will be used to assess the association of categorical clinical data with categorical biomarker data. Time-to-event clinical data (PFS, OS) will be correlated with biomarker data using Kaplan-Meier methodology and Cox regression models. Logistic regression models will also be used to predict binary clinical data with baseline biomarker data. Finally, graphical methods and descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the data as well. Two-sided p-values \< 0.05 will be considered statistically significant., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the clinical efficacy, as indicated by the rate of complete response (CR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, of combination therapy with pembrolizumab and lenvatinib in lenvatinib-naive patients with progressive radioiodine-refractory differentiated thyroid cancers (DTC). (Cohort 1) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) by the addition of pembrolizumab to patients with radioiodine-refractory DTC who have progressive disease on lenvatinib alone. (Cohort 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety profile and toxicity of combination therapy with pembrolizumab and lenvatinib in patients with progressive DTC. (Cohort 1 and cohort 2) II. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). (Cohort 1 and cohort 2)

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with pretreatment frequency of CD8+ T cells in the primary and/or metastatic tumor. (Cohort 1 and cohort 2) II. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with pretreatment PD-L1 and PD-L2 levels in the primary and/or metastatic tumor. (Cohort 1 and cohort 2) III. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with pretreatment frequency of lymphocytes expressing CD3, CD4, PD-1, FoxP3, or CD20, and of CD163+ macrophages. (Cohort 1 and cohort 2) IV. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with the phenotype and frequency of key leukocyte subsets (i.e., PD-1+ T cells, regulatory T cells \[Tregs\], myeloid subsets) in the peripheral blood before, at 6 and 18 weeks on therapy, and at 54 weeks (study completion), progressive disease (PD), or study withdrawal. (Cohort 1) V. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with PD-1+ T cell functional capacity. (Cohort 1) VI. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with serum anti-thyroglobulin antibody levels assessed before, and at 18 weeks on therapy. (Cohort 1 and 2) VII. To correlate tumor response (RECIST 1.1) with tumor mutation status. (Cohort 1) VIII. To broadly investigate mechanisms of response and resistance to combination therapy, gene expression profiles will be generated from frozen biopsies for analysis by ribonucleic acid-sequencing (RNA-Seq). (Cohort 1)

OUTLINE:

Patients receive lenvatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 19 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue treatment for up to 35 cycles.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.