De-intensification of Radiation & Chemotherapy in Low-Risk Human Papillomavirus-related Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Ca
The purpose of this research study is to learn about the effectiveness of using lower-intensity radiation and chemotherapy to treat human papillomavirus (HPV) associated low-risk oropharyngeal and/or unknown primary squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck. The cure rate for this type of cancer is estimated to be high, \> 90%. The standard treatment for this cancer is 7 weeks of radiation with 3 high doses of cisplatin. Sometimes surgery is performed afterwards. This standard regimen causes a lot of side effects and long term complications. This study is evaluating whether a lower dose of radiation and chemotherapy may provide a similar cure rate as the longer, more intensive standard regimen. Patients in this study will receive 1 less week of radiation and a lower weekly dose of chemotherapy followed by a limited surgical evaluation.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell|Head and Neck Neoplasms|Oropharyngeal Neoplasms
RADIATION: Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT)|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Limited surgical evaluation
Pathologic Complete Response Rate After De-escalated CRT in HPV-positive and/or p16 Positive Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OPSCC)., Pathologic Complete Response Rate is defined as no evidence of residual viable cancer in the evaluated pathological specimens., 6 to 14 weeks after the last patient is enrolled, or approximately 24 to 32 months after study being opened
Two-Year Local Control, Local control is the arrest of cancer growth at the site of origin., Median follow-up was 36 months with a range of 5-53 months|Regional Control, Regional control is the percentage of participants who displayed control of cancer in sites that represent the first stages of spread from the local origin., Median follow-up was 36 months with a range of 5-53 months|Cause-Specific Survival, Cause-specific survival is the percentage of participants who have not died from low-risk low-risk OPSCC., The median follow-up was 36 months with a range of 5-53 months|Distant Metastases Free Survival, Distant metastases free survival is the percentage of subjects in a study who have survived without cancer spread., the median follow-up was 36 months with a range of|Overall Survival Rate, The percentage of participants who are still alive from the start of treatment., Median follow-up was 36 months with a range of 5-53 months.|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ)-H&N-35, The head \& neck cancer module of the EORTC QLQ comprises 35 questions assessing symptoms and side effects of treatment, social function and body image/sexuality.

The head \& neck cancer module incorporates seven multi-item scales that assess pain, swallowing, senses (taste and smell), speech, social eating, social contact and sexuality. There are also eleven single items. Most questions used 4 point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'); several single item questions (Pain killers, nutritional supplements, feeding tube, weight loss, and weight gain) were just coded as no=1, yes=2. The scores of these scales were averaged from the scores of the component items, transformed and analyzed on a 0 - 100 scale. For all items and scales, high scores indicate more problems (i.e. there are no function scales in which high scores would mean better functioning)., Prior to CRT, 4-8 weeks after CRT, follow-up visits for 2 years after CRT|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 Global Health Status/QoL, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer-specific instrument with 30 questions which incorporates 9 multi-item scales: 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social); 9 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea and financial difficulties); and a global health and quality-of-life scale. Most questions used 4 point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'very poor' to 7 'Excellent'). The scores of these scales were averaged from the scores of the component items, transformed and analyzed on a 0 - 100 scale. A higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., Prior to CRT, 4-8 weeks after CRT, follow-up visits for 2 years after CRT|The Eating Assessment Tool (EAT-10) Composite Score, The EAT-10 is a 10 item, validated self-administered instrument for documenting dysphagia severity. This questionnaire uses symptom-specific scores to assess dysphasia with solids, liquids, and pills as well as the impact of dysphagia on mental, social, and physical health. Higher raw scores represent worse QoL. All items have a 0-4 scale where 0 represents no problem and 4 represents severe problem. Total score can range from 0 to 40., Prior to CRT, 4-8 weeks after CRT, follow-up visits for 2 years after CRT|The Rosenbek Penetration Aspiration Scale, The Rosenbek Penetration Aspiration Scale will be used to quantify dysphagia. It is an 8-point, equal-appearing interval scale to describe penetration and aspiration events. The measure was used for thin substances, pureed substances, and solid substances.

1. Material does not enter airway 2. Material enters the airway, remains above the vocal folds, and is ejected from the airway. 3. Material enters the airway, remains above the vocal folds, and is not ejected from the airway. 4. Material enters the airway, contacts the vocal folds, and is ejected from the airway. 5. Material enters the airway, contacts the vocal folds, and is not ejected from the airway. 6.Material enters the airway, passes below the vocal folds, and is ejected into the larynx or out of the airway. 7. Material enters the airway, passes below the vocal folds, and is not ejected from the trachea despite effort. 8. Material enters the airway, passes below the vocal folds, and no effort is made to eject., Prior to CRT and 4-8 weeks after completion of CRT
The aim is to evaluate the pathological response rate of HPV positive and/or p16 positive low-risk oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) after de-intensified chemoradiotherapy (CRT). Patients will receive 54 to 60 Gy of Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) with concurrent weekly intravenous cisplatin (30 mg/m2). Diagnostic imaging (CT and/or MRI) will be obtained 4 to 8 weeks after completion of CRT to assess response. All patients will have surgical resection of any clinically apparent residual primary tumor or biopsy of the primary site if there is no evidence of residual tumor and will undergo a limited neck dissection to encompass at least those nodal level(s) that were positive pre-treatment, 4 to 14 weeks after CRT. The primary endpoint of this study is the rate of pathological complete response (pCR) after CRT. Longitudinal assessments of quality of life and patient reported outcomes will be obtained prior to, during, and after CRT.