Multicentre International STudy for the Prevention With Ialuril® of Radio-induced Cystitis (MISTIC)
The study is randomized and it will be conducted in the field of routine clinical practice. A total of 100 consecutive patients planned to receive radiotherapy for prostate cancer will be enrolled.

The patients will enter the study as controls (50 patients that won't receive any experimental IMP) or as treated-group (50 patients that will be also treated with the experimental IMPs, Ialuril® and Ialuril® Soft Gels) according to a predefined, centre-specific randomization.
Prostate Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Radiotherapy+IAluril®+Ialuril Soft Gels®|RADIATION: Radiotherapy only
Rate of patients, The rate of patients who stopped treatment with intravesical or oral Ialuril due to intollerance or adverse events, 12 months
comparative analysis of score between the two groups through ICIQ, comparative analysis of score between the two groups (active arm vs. no drug arm)following questionnaires scores.

Questionnaires:

• ICIQ-Male Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms (ICIQ-MLUTS) questionnaire and bladder diary - Scale: Never - Occasionally

* Sometimes - Most of the time - All of the time, 12 months|comparative analysis of score between the two groups through EPIC, comparative analysis of score between the two groups (active arm vs. no drug arm)following questionnaires scores.

Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) - Urinary Domain Scale :From 1 to 5 ( 1 smallest, 5 highest), 12 months|comparative analysis of score of QOL, comparative analysis of score between the two groups (active arm vs. no drug arm)following questionnaires scores.

EQ-5D-5L (QoL) -

Scale:

I am not anxious or depressed I am slightly anxious or depressed I am moderately anxious or depressed I am severely anxious or depressed I am extremely anxious or depressed, 12 months|comparative analysis of score between the two groups through IPSS, comparative analysis of score between the two groups (active arm vs. no drug arm)following questionnaires scores.

IPSS Scale: 0 to 5 (0 worst - 5 best), 12 months
Radiotherapy will last for 6 weeks. During planning of treatment, regimen and average dose to the whole bladder will be recorded to assess the impact of EBRT on urinary symptoms.

The treated-group will receive also intravesical Ialuril® weekly for 6 weeks (in the 24 hours before every radiation therapy weekly schedule), plus oral treatment with Ialuril® Soft Gels capsules (1 capsule twice a day after meals, at a distance of 12 hours, for 12 weeks).

The control-group will receive radiotherapy only for 6 weeks.

The Primary Objective is to assess the tolerability and safety of HA-CS intravesical instillations (Ialuril®) plus an oral combination of curcumin, quercetin, HA and CS (Ialuril® Soft Gels) in male patients undergoing radiotherapy for prostate cancer The efficacy of the treatment will be evaluated at the end of the study once received all the crfs.