Pilot Phase 2 Study to Investigate the Preliminary Efficacy and Safety of INNO-206 in Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
Patients with metastatic, locally advanced, or unresectable pancreatic ductal carcinomas (PDA) who have failed prior chemotherapy with gemcitabine regimens have an extremely poor prognosis with progression-free survival of around 13 weeks and median overall survival of approximately 20 weeks after second line chemotherapy. Recent studies suggest that albumin may be preferentially concentrated in pancreatic cancers that appear to be starved for this protein. Thus, any molecule attached to albumin would also collect inside the tumor. Based on its postulated mechanism of action, INNO-206 may improve the activity of doxorubicin without increasing its toxicity, as has been demonstrated in animal studies, and induce enhanced anti-tumor efficacy.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: INNO-206
Objective Response Rate, Objective responses were evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). Changes (ie, improvements) in tumor measurements from baseline values were assigned a status of CR or PR or SD. Objective response measurements comprised the sum of CR plus PR.

Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm).

Partial Response (PR): \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, from the baseline sum longest diameter., Approximately 12 months from enrollment
Number of Participants With Treatment-related Toxicities (Adverse Events), The primary objective of this study is to determine the preliminary safety of administration of aldoxorubicin in subjects with advanced or unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma as measured by the frequency and severity of adverse events (AEs).

The following assessments were used to determine if subjects had adverse events:

vitals signs (systolic/diastolic blood pressure, pulse, respiration, temperature, weight, and body surface area) physical examination laboratory tests (chemistry, hematology, urinalysis, BSA) additionally, the following scans were performed to determine adverse events: ECHO / MUGA ECG, 30 days after last dose, up to 178 days
This is a phase 2 open-label, pilot study evaluating the preliminary efficacy and safety of INNO-206 administered at 350 mg/m2 (260 mg/m2 doxorubicin equivalent) intravenously (IV) on Day 1 every 21 days for up to 8 consecutive cycles.

Tumor response (complete and partial response and stable disease) will be monitored at Screening, then prior to cycles 3, 5 and 7, 3 weeks after cycle 8, then every 2 months to month 8 and every 3 months to tumor progression using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, and treatment will continue every 21 days until tumor progression is observed, 8 cycles of treatment are completed or unacceptable toxicity occurs. Progression-free survival \[PFS\], stable disease at 4 months and overall survival \[OS\] will be monitored as other primary objectives. PET/CT will be performed at Baseline and Week 9 to determine change in tumor metabolic activity, and CA 19-9 will be determined serially to assess potential tumor reduction. Subjects will visit the study site every 21 days for their IV infusions, at which time safety monitoring, including AEs, a directed physical examination, laboratory evaluations (serum chemistry, complete blood count \[CBC\], and urinalysis), vital signs, weight measurements, ECOG performance status and ECGs will be performed. Cardiac function will also be followed periodically using ECHOs.