Telatinib Safety and Pharmacokinetics Study in China Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
The purpose of this China Phase I bridging study is to to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of telatinib in China patients with advanced solid tumor
Solid Tumor, Adult
DRUG: Telatinib Mesylate
Dose-limiting toxicity, incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, Other safety and tolerability parameters including 12-lead ECG, vital signs, blood pressure/pulse, temperature, physical examination, laboratory parameters (hematology, blood biochemistry, coagulant examination, thyroid function test and urine test), and ECOG score., single dose, and twice daily continuous dosing for 21 days
Cmax, Peak Plasma Concentration, single dose, and twice daily continuous dosing for 21 days|AUC, Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve, single dose, and twice daily continuous dosing for 21 days
Explore potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers associated with telatinib treatment, Plasma level of soluble VEGFR2, prior to treatment and after 21-day treatment
This is an open-label, nonrandomized, phase I, escalating dose study to evaluate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetic profile of telatinib. .

This study is comprised of two stages. The 1st stage follows the traditional 3+3 dose-escalation design. Telatinib mesylate tablets will be administrated orally to patient twice daily at a starting dose of 600 mg bid. Patients will be successively enrolled into three cohorts from low-dose to high-dose (600 mg bid, 900 mg bid, and 1200 mg bid). For each cohort, patient will be first enrolled for single-dose PK and safety observation. After one-day interval, patient will then be resumed for a 21-day continuous treatment to assess safety, tolerability and PK profile with multiple dosing.

The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) observation period will be 23 days, starting from the first day of single dosing till the end of the 21-day continuous treatment.

If first 3 subjects at a dose level complete a cohort without experiencing any DLT, subjects for the next higher cohort will be recruited. If 1 of the first 3 subjects experiences DLT, then up to three additional subjects (total up to six subjects) will enrolled at that dose level. If more than 2 patients at a dose level experienced DLT, dose escalation will be halted. And the dose level will be declared the toxic dose. The MTD is defined as the previous (lower dose) dose level.

If MTD is not observed even at 1200 mg bid, dose-escalation will not be continued.