Phase Ib Study of Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) in Oligometastatic Non-small Lung Cancer (NSCLC) With Dual Immune Checkpoint Inhibition
This is a phase Ib study to evaluate safety and tolerability of dual checkpoint inhibition (DCI) of durvalumab (anti-PD-L1) and tremelimumab (anti-CTLA-4) with SBRT in the treatment of oligometastatic NSCLC. This study will examine the sequential delivery of SBRT to all disease sites followed by combination of durvalumab and tremelimumab for patients for whom the goal is ablating all known sites of disease. The investigators anticipate that for many participants this will be the first line-therapy. Participants who have received prior-platinum-based chemotherapy and/or any line of prior chemotherapy are eligible. Prior immunotherapy treatment is not allowed.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage IV
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy
Safety and tolerability of SBRT followed by combined durvalumab and tremelimumab, assessed by CTCAE v4.03, Toxicities will be summarized by type and severity in tabular format. Toxicity rates (grade 2, grade 3, grade 4, grade ≥ 2, grade ≥ 3, etc.) will be calculated and reported along the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. The 95% confidence intervals will be constructed using the Wilson score method., Up to 3 years
Progression Free Survival assessed with RECIST 1.1 tumor assessments, Progression-free survival (PFS) will be defined as the difference (in months) between the date of study enrollment and the date of disease progression or death due to any cause. PFS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method, and the Brookmeyer-Crowley method will be used to construct the 95% confidence interval for the median PFS. PFS assessed with RECIST 1.1 tumor assessments. The effect of DCI with durvalumab and tremelimumab will be compared against historical controls for a 95% CI and p-value., Up to 4 years|Overall Survival assessed with RECIST 1.1 tumor assessments, Overall survival (OS) will be defined as the difference (in months) between the date of study enrollment to the date death due to any cause. OS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method, and the Brookmeyer-Crowley method will be used to construct the 95% confidence interval for the median OS. The effect of DCI with durvalumab tremelimumab will be compared against historical controls for a 95% CI and p-value., Up to 4 years
Evaluate immune response, Determine whether immune response on biopsy sections or circulating tumor cells is increased following SBRT. The paired McNemar's test will be used to compare with subjects with an immune response between assessment time point., Up to 4 years|Evaluate PD-L1 expression, Determine whether PD-L1 expression on biopsy sections or circulating tumor cells is increased following SBRT. PD-L1 expression will be summarized in terms of means, standard deviation, median and range. Absolute and percentage changes in PD-L1 expression levels between the pre-SBRT versus post-SBRT assessment will be calculated and evaluated using a paired t-test., Up to 4 years
This is a phase Ib study to evaluate safety and tolerability of dual checkpoint inhibition (DCI) of durvalumab (anti-PD-L1) and tremelimumab (anti-CTLA-4) with SBRT in the treatment of oligometastatic NSCLC. This study will examine the sequential delivery of SBRT to all disease sites followed by combination of durvalumab and tremelimumab for patients for whom the goal is ablating all known sites of disease. The investigators anticipate that for many participants this will be the first line-therapy. Participants who have received prior-platinum-based chemotherapy and/or any line of prior chemotherapy are eligible. Prior immunotherapy treatment is not allowed.