Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Brachytherapy Applicator Study
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images can better help to plan internal radiation treatment.
Cervical Cancer
DEVICE: Intracavitary Applicator Placement|OTHER: Computed Tomography (CT)|OTHER: Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Number of Participants With Improved Image Quality in the Shifted Position, To determine the number of participants with improved image quality using the Novel Brachytherapy Applicator, using subjective and objective measures. In the subjective, for assessment of image quality for clinical use, the images obtained in the "shifted" position and in the "standard" position, were compared by a radiation oncologist without knowledge of which was the first and which was the second image. To provide and objective measure of the reduction in image artifact with the shields shifted, the bladder, rectum, and sigmoid were contoured, and average and standard deviation of Hounsfield units (HU) within these critical structures on the images were compared., At the time of implant
Number of Participants With High Quality Images With the Adaptive Applicator in the Shifted or Standard Position, The number of participants with high quality images of the bladder, rectum and sigmoid with the adaptive applicator in the shifted position and standard position assessed by the Hounsfield unit values. The higher quality images are the images with higher density when the applicator is in either the shifted or standard position. The Hounsfield unit (HU) is a relative quantitative measurement of radio density used by radiologists in the interpretation of computed tomography (CT) images. The images obtained in the "shifted" position and in the "standard" position with the use of the adaptive applicator, were compared by a radiation oncologist without knowledge of which was the first and which was the second image., At the time of implant
3D Image-guided Intracavitary Brachytherapy Treatment Planning in Cervical Cancer, Analysis was conducted using JMP Pro statistical software for patients diagnosis of 1B2cervical cancer, 24 months from baseline|Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is Superior to Computed Tomography (CT) Imaging in Delineating a High Risk Target Volume. 3D Image-guided Intracavitary Brachytherapy Treatment Planning in Cervical Cancer"., Utility of MRI imaging as compared to CT or MRI can improve dosimetric tumor coverage and normal tissue sparing., 24 months from baseline ( 2-years)|Clinical and Tumor Characteristics of Patients in Whom CT or MRI Can Improve Dosimetric Tumor Coverage and Normal Tissue Sparing, MRI-based brachytherapy planning for patients with tumors \>5 cm and parametrial invasion on MRI at diagnosis and for those with a high BMI, 24 months from baseline ( 2-years)|Feasibility of MRI-based Treatment Planning Utilizing the Shielded MD Anderson Adaptive Applicator., RI-adaptive applicators for treatment planning for every case/patient., 24 months from baseline ( 2-years)|Relative Resource Utilization for MRI and CT Based Treatment Planning as Compared to Standard Film Based Planning Techniques., Due to lack of a suitable comparison population during this timeframe- at our institution, these protocol-eligible cervical cancer patients were no longer undergoing brachytherapy treatment planning based solely off standard plain films alone., Not able to complete
Treatment planning for patients with cervical cancer treated at MD Anderson is usually performed based on x-ray films taken while the patient is under anesthesia in the operating room. In this study, you will have an MRI and CT scan performed after recovering from anesthesia in addition to the standard x-rays. In order to allow MRI images to be taken, special MRI compatible applicators will be used. The CT and MRI images will be reviewed by the doctor in charge of radiation treatment and will also be used for research purposes.

Study Procedures:

If you agree to take part in this study, an applicator made of a material that can be used during an MRI will be used.

You will have a CT scan and an MRI scan performed after the implant is placed in the operating room. The CT scan should take about 20 minutes and the MRI about 55 minutes. These scans will be performed after you wake up from general anesthesia. Pain medicine will be given if you feel any discomfort from the placement of the implant.

The additional scans will be used to confirm appropriate placement of the applicator and may result in small adjustments to your radiation treatment plan.

Length of Study:

Your active participation on this study will be complete once you have the CT and MRI scans.

Your medical record may be reviewed after the scans for the purposes of the study, but you will not be contacted in the future.

This is an investigational study. The applicator that best fits your personal anatomy will be used in this study. A selection of MRI compatible applicators are available. Many of the MRI applicators that will be used are FDA approved. However, in some cases you may have a novel device with a moveable shield placed. This applicator is not FDA approved or commercially available.

Up to 57 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.