Tomotherapy in Locally Advanced Gallbladder and Pancreatic Cancers
SUMMARY

PROJECT TITLE: Concurrent chemo-radiation using Tomotherapy based IMRT in locally advanced Gallbladder and Pancreatic cancers: A Phase II study

SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES:

Primary To assess the radiological response by dose escalated IMRT in locally advanced inoperable gallbladder and pancreatic cancers.

Secondary

1. To assess the resectability rate with microscopic negative margin (R0).
2. To assess the acute and late toxicities (Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability)
3. To study the locoregional control in the patients undergoing R0 resection
4. To study overall survival

DESIGN: Phase II study

STUDY POPULATION: All patients of age \>18 years years diagnosed with non metastatic locally advanced inoperable gall bladder and pancreatic cancer

STUDY SIZE: 60 patients

METHODOLOGY: Sixty cases will be screened and taken for study if eligible after taking the informed consent.

Patients will receive radiotherapy using Tomotherapy based IMRT with concurrent chemotherapy Gemcitabine weekly. The response will evaluated at 6 weeks post chemoradiation and if operable will undergo surgery, if still inoperable or metastatic will receive palliative chemotherapy.

PROJECT PERIOD:

Total project period : 3 years Recruitment, Data collection : 2 years Complete analysis of data : 1 year

STUDY SITE: Tata memorial centre
Pancreatic Neoplasms Malignant|Malignant Neoplasm of Gall Bladder Non-resectable
RADIATION: Tomotherapy
To assess the feasibility of concurrent chemo-radiation with dose escalated IMRT in locally advanced inoperable gallbladder and pancreatic cancers, Number of Patients with Grade III adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, 3 Years
Response to CTRT, All patients will undergo PET CT scan for radiological evaluation of response at 6 weeks post CTRT, 3 months|R0 resection rate, All patients will be jointly evaluated for surgery 6 weeks post chemoradiation, 6 weeks|Locoregional control, 3 years|Overall survival, At the median follow up of 3 years the 5 year overall survival rate would be assesed, 3 years
In both gall bladder and pancreatic cancer surgery is the main stay of treatment, but majority of these tumors are inoperable by virtue of adjacent organ infiltration. In this study, inoperable gallbladder and pancreatic cancer patients will be treated with high precision radiotherapy using Tomotherapy delivering higher dose of radiation along with chemotherapy. It is expected that this high dose precise radiotherapy along with chemotherapy will lead to good symptom relief and make some of these tumors operable.