Efficiency of Imatinib Treatment Maintenance or Interruption After 3 Years of Adjuvant Treatment in Patients With Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumours (GIST)
This is a 2 arms study concerning patients with primary GIST who followed an Imatinib adjuvant treatment for 3 years after surgery and who have a high risk of recurrence.

In the first arm, patients will continue Imatinib treatment for 3 more years, allowing to determine if the continuation of this treatment is efficient for disease control, in terms of Disease Free Survival improvement.

In the second arm, patients will discontinue the Imatinib treatment, as standard practice. This arm will allow to determine if the re-introduction of Imatinib at relapse is still an efficient treatment for the control of disease.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors|Resected Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors|Non-metastatic|High Risk of Recurrence|KIT Gene Mutation
DRUG: Imatinib maintenance
Disease Free Survival (DFS), Time from the date of randomisation to the first documented relapse or death due to any cause. Patients with no event at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of the last adequate tumour assessment. The results will be analyzed according to the study arm and randomization strata to wich patients were assigned., 6 years (i.e. at the the time of last patient last visit)
Overall Survival (OS), Time from the date of randomization until the date of death due to any cause and censored at the date of last contact for patients alive at last contact. The results will be analyzed according to the study arm and randomization strata to wich patients were assigned., 6 years (i.e. at the the time of last patient last visit)|Time to Secondary Resistance (TSR), Time from the date of randomization until the date of first relapse under Imatinib treatment (i.e first relapse in the "Imatinib maintenance arm" and relapse after reintroduction of Imatinib in the "Interruption of Imatinib arm"). The results will be analyzed according to the study arm and randomization strata to wich patients were assigned., 6 years (i.e. at the the time of last patient last visit)|Percentage of patients in Complete Response (%CR) in interruption arm after reintroduction of Imatinib, Percentage of patients in Complete Response (CR) after reintroduction of Imatinib treatment for patients assigned to the interruption arm and who experience GIST recurrence. CR is assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, 6 years (i.e. at the the time of last patient last visit)|Frequency of Adverse Events (AE), The assessment of safety will be based mainly on the frequency of AE based on the Common Toxicity Criteria version 4 grade. AE will be coded according to the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). Descriptive statistics will be provided for characterizing and assessing patient tolerance to treatment. Patients with at least either one serious AE, or one grade 3-4, or one AE requiring the interruption of study treatment, will be described by study arm and compared using a Pearson's Chi2 test or a Fisher's exact test, if adequate. Patients will be analyzed according the duration of exposure to imatinib, 6 years (i.e. at the the time of last patient last visit)|Patient's Quality of Life (QoL), QoL will be assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30). Descriptive statistics (e.g. means and medians) will be used to summarize the scored scales at it scheduled assessment time point of the questionnaire. The distribution of time to definitive health-related QoL deterioration by study arms will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The time to definitive deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of event, wich is defined as \> 10 points decrease from baseline of QLQ-C30 global score (items 29 and 30) or death due to any cause. If patient has not had an event, time to QoL deterioration will be censored at the date of last adequate evaluation., 6 years (i.e at the the time of last patient last visit)
Gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs) are rare mesenchymal neoplasms, mostly diagnosed between 55 and 60 years of age, which account for 5% of all sarcomas. Worldwide annual incidence is approximately 12 cases per million people, corresponding to approximately 800 new cases per year in France.

A large majority of GISTs harbour activating mutations in the proto-oncogenes KIT and/or PDGFRA, both coding cell-surface cytokine receptors with tyrosine-protein kinase activity.

Imatinib mesilate (Glivec®, Novartis Pharma SAS) is a selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor, leading to inhibition of KIT and PDGFRA signalling pathways. The introduction of imatinib has revolutionised the therapeutic management of GIST patients and has provided an unprecedented demonstration of the clinical benefit of a targeted therapy for patients with advanced/metastatic solid tumors. First results from prospective trials conducted with imatinib in GIST patients have demonstrated a 300% increase in median overall survival, and a likely 100% increase in 5 and 10-year survival as compared to cytotoxic chemotherapy.

The successful use of imatinib in the treatment of advanced GISTs and the significant risk of recurrence of advanced GISTs have prompted the investigation of the clinical benefit of imatinib as a post-operative adjuvant therapy. Two prospective randomized Phase III trials have demonstrated that adjuvant imatinib treatment significantly prolong overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) when given for 3 years. To date, imatinib is also indicated in the adjuvant setting after complete resection of primary, localized, KIT-positive GIST at high risk of recurrence. However, the optimal treatment duration remains unclear and it should be determined whether

1. prolonged use of adjuvant imatinib beyond 3 years may enable to reduce the risk of GIST recurrence and to improve overall survival, and
2. imatinib rechallenge is efficient for treating recurrence after completion of 3-year adjuvant imatinib therapy.

This trial is an open-label, randomized, multicenter phase III study aiming to determine the clinical impact of maintaining imatinib treatment beyond 3 years in the adjuvant setting for patients with resected GISTs at high risk of recurrence according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network Task Force on GIST (NCCN) risk classification.