Implementation of a Program Based on Adapted Physical Activity and Recommendations for Second Cancers Prevention for TYACs
About 700 new cases of cancer are recorded each year among TYAC aged 15 to 25 years old in Rhône-Alpes region (France); more than 200 are treated and supported within the TYAC Department of the Institute of Hematology and Oncology Pediatrics (Centre Léon Bérard-Civil Hospice of Lyon). These patients survive from their disease in 80% of cases; they have six times more likely to develop a risk of second primary cancer (SCP) than their peers. This risk of SCP is multifactorial and varies depending on the type of first cancer, treatment received and the prevalence of risk factors (smoking, overweight, sedentary lifestyle, environmental exposures...). This project aims to implement a clinical program based on adapted physical activity (APA) and cancer prevention recommendations for TYAC during the active treatment period (4-6 months). The methodology used series of assessments of APA sessions and information meetings dedicated to cancer prevention and SCP risk recommendations. It mobilizes regularly the health care team of TYAC Department, TYAC associations, sports structures and associations involved in cancer prevention at the regional level. Assessment of TYAC satisfaction regarding the project, benefits in terms of exercise practice, and knowledge improvement on cancer prevention recommendations, are assessed throughout the program.
Neoplasms
OTHER: Physical activity program and prevention after cancer
Score of physical activity, International Physical Activity Questionnaire, 12 months
Score of quality of life, QLQC30, 4 months|Score of fatigue, Visual analogic scale, 4 months|Weight, 4 months|Waist circumference, 4 months
About 700 new cases of cancer are recorded each year among TYAC aged 15 to 25 years old in Rhône-Alpes region (France); more than 200 are treated and supported within the TYAC Department of the Institute of Hematology and Oncology Pediatrics (Centre Léon Bérard-Civil Hospice of Lyon). These patients survive from their disease in 80% of cases; they have six times more likely to develop a risk of second primary cancer (SCP) than their peers. This risk of SCP is multifactorial and varies depending on the type of first cancer, treatment received and the prevalence of risk factors (smoking, overweight, sedentary lifestyle, environmental exposures...). This project aims to implement a clinical program based on adapted physical activity (APA) and cancer prevention recommendations for TYAC during the active treatment period (4-6 months). The methodology used series of assessments of APA sessions and information meetings dedicated to cancer prevention and SCP risk recommendations. It mobilizes regularly the health care team of TYAC Department, TYAC associations, sports structures and associations involved in cancer prevention at the regional level. Assessment of TYAC satisfaction regarding the project, benefits in terms of exercise practice, and knowledge improvement on cancer prevention recommendations, are assessed throughout the program.