Atezolizumab Plus Bevacizumab Versus Sintilimab Plus Bevacizumab With TACE and HAIC in Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Systemic therapy is the primary option for managing advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The combination of atezolizumab and bevacizumab (A+B) has emerged as the first-choice treatment for advanced HCC(IM brave 150). The ORIENT-32 study, also reported an ORR of 24% for sintilimab plus a bevacizumab biosimilar (S+B) versus 8% for sorafenib, with significantly longer OS and PFS. Based on those therapeutic advantages over sorafenib, both the A+B and S+B regimens were approved as first-line treatment options for advanced HCC in China. These two trials had very similar designs but included different target populations. Our previous studies have demonstrated that a novel treatment approach combining transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) with hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) has high efficacy in patients with potentially resectable HCC or portal vein tumor thrombus. However, it remains unknown whether combining immune checkpoint inhibitors and macromolecular VEGF-targeted therapy with transvascular local interventions could improve patient prognosis in uHCC.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Atezolizumab combined with Bevacizumab|DRUG: Sintilimab combined with Bevacizumab|PROCEDURE: Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy
objective response rate，ORR, Evaluated according to the criteria for evaluating efficacy in solid tumors (mRECIST and RECIST 1.1), 24 months|progression free survival，PFS, Assessed using the mRECIST criteria, defined as patient survival without tumor progression from the start of randomization to the end of year 2, 24 months
treatment-related adverse events, TRAEs, incidence rates of treatment-related adverse events during the study, 24 months|overall survival, OS, Defined as the time from the start of randomization to death from any cause, 24 months
Systemic therapy is the primary option for managing advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The combination of atezolizumab and bevacizumab (A+B) has emerged as the first-choice treatment for advanced HCC(IM brave 150). The ORIENT-32 study, also reported an ORR of 24% for sintilimab plus a bevacizumab biosimilar (S+B) versus 8% for sorafenib, with significantly longer OS and PFS. Based on those therapeutic advantages over sorafenib, both the A+B and S+B regimens were approved as first-line treatment options for advanced HCC in China. These two trials had very similar designs but included different target populations. Our previous studies have demonstrated that a novel treatment approach combining transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) with hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) has high efficacy in patients with potentially resectable HCC or portal vein tumor thrombus. However, it remains unknown whether combining immune checkpoint inhibitors and macromolecular VEGF-targeted therapy with transvascular local interventions could improve patient prognosis in uHCC.