Boost Irradiation to the Supraclavicular Area Among High Risk cN3c Breast Cancer Patients
cN3c breast cancer with ipsilateral supraclavicular (SCV) lymph nodal (SCLN) metastasis is known to have a dismal prognosis. Currently, the combined-modality therapy consisting of primary systemic therapy (PST), subsequent local and/or systemic therapy based on response is the standard of care. However, the value of giving radiotherapy (RT) boost to SCV region remains uncertain in cN3c patients. This study aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of RT boost to the SCV area in high-risk cN3c breast cancer patients based on nodal response following PST.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Boost irradiation
2-year recurrence-free survival, RFS were calculated from the date of surgery to the date of first documented recurrence (including regional, local and distant) or mortality, whichever happens first. In the case of patients who had not encountered recurrence or death, specifically in terms of recurrence-free survival, the time of the last tumor assessment was considered as the endpoint. Tumor response was evaluated by investigators following RECIST v1.1 criteria., 2 years
Overall survival, defined as the period from the initial drug administration to the subject's demise from various causes. In cases where patients were lost to follow-up prior to their passing, the date of their last documented contact was documented. For patients still alive at the last analyzed time point, the time of their last contact was considered as their survival duration. In the analysis of survival and subsequent treatment, all patients were monitored until their death, loss to follow-up, or the conclusion of the study., 2 years|Late toxicity, Monitor the occurrence of late toxic reactions (based on CTCAE 5.0) after 6 months after the completion of radiotherapy, 2 years|Acute toxicity, Monitor the occurrence of acute toxic reactions (based on CTCAE 5.0) and subacute toxic reactions (RTOG) in the treatment of cN3c radiotherapy, both during the treatment course and within three months after its completion., 6 months|Quality of Life (QoL), Collect QoL data on cN3c breast cancer patients. The data is measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3.0) according to investigator collection at the starting and ending time of the treatment. EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. The core and disease-specific for ESCC modules are selected to estimate treatment related influence on patients' life. The final score of the questionnaire is collected and analyzed according to detailed scoring procedures from manuals., 2 years
This study is a phase II single-arm, prospective clinical trial aimed at assessing the efficacy and safety of RT boost to the SCV area among high-risk cN3c breast cancer patients contingent upon the nodal response after PST.

Our previous retrospective study revealed that nodal response to PST serves as an independent prognostic factor for survival and pattern of failure. A cumulative SCV dose of ≥60 Gy has been associated with improved overall survival (OS) in subgroup of patients who did not achieve SCLN cCR.

Based on nodal response to PST, patients will be categorized into three groups: those who did not achieve cCR in SCLN (considered high risk), those who achieved SCLN cCR but did not attain pCR in ALN (considered intermediate risk), and those who achieved cCR in SCLN and pCR in ALN (considered low risk). High-risk patients will undergo boost irradiation to the SCV with a cumulative dose of ≥60 Gy.