An Extended Feasibility Phase I/II Study of Methylenetetrahydrofolate (Arfolitixorin) and Pemetrexed Single Agent, Given as Neoadjuvant Treatment in Patients With Resectable Rectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether an optimal dose of \[6R\] 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (arfolitixorin) in combination with pemetrexed are effective in pre-operative treatment of patients with resectable rectal cancer.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: [6R] 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (arfolitixorin)|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Feasibility of Pemetrexed Prior to Surgery, Feasibility is defined as the ability to receive the total planned dose of pemetrexed (i.e., 1500 mg/m) administered over a period of no more than 9 weeks. Feasibility is measured as absence of the following toxicities:

1. CTC grade 4 lasting \>= 7 days, or febrile neutropenia
2. CTC grade 4 thrombocytopenia or grade 3 with bleeding.
3. CTC grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity (excluding nausea and vomiting, isolated CTC grade 3 ALT or AST that returns to the patient's pretreatment CTC grade within 3 weeks, or grade 3 fatigue lasting \<7 days)., 3 cycles (21-day cycles)
Pathological Complete Response (pCR), Surgery following 3 cycles (21-day cycles) of chemotherapy|Number of Participants Receiving Sphincter Saving Surgery, Surgery following 3 cycles (21-day cycles) of chemotherapy|Evaluation of qualitative and quantitative toxicities, Bleeding, anastomosis, leakage, serious infection., Start of study treatment until last postoperative visit. Expected average 16 weeks.|[6R] 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate tissue concentration determination, Surgery following 3 cycles (21-day cycles) of chemotherapy|Correlation between 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate and HCy levels in blood, Blood samples are taken before start of study treatment, in conjunction with start of every study drug cycle, and after completed study treatment. HCy measurements performed using HPLC. 5-10-methylenetetrahydrofolate is measured in tissue biopsies (tumor and adjacent mucosa) sampled in conjunction with surgery. The tissue is collected before start of study treatment, during and after completed study treatment. 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate levels are measured using LC/MS/MS., Samples taken prior before study treatment, during 3 cycles of chemotherapy and after completion of study treatment. Expected average 20 weeks.|Correlation of folate gene polymorphisms and gene signature profiling with clinical outcome and toxicity profiles., RT-PCR will be used to measure and determine the gene expression levels of the genes FPGS (Folylpolyglutamate synthase) and GGH (Gamma-glutamyl hydrolase). This translational research will be compared with the clinical outcome and toxicity profiles of patients., Tissue to be collected from tumor and adjacent mucosa before start of study treatment, during and after completed study treatment. Expected average 20 weeks.|Pharmacokinetic parameters of [6R] 5,10-mTHF, 5-formyl-THF, 5-methyl-THF and THF calculated from plasma, Plasma samples will be collected prior to study treatment, and at 10 minutes, 1, 2 and 4 hours after study treatment, Calculated on Day1 and Day15 after cycle 1 and 3
The purpose of this study is to determine whether an optimal dose of \[6R\] 5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate (arfolitixorin) in combination with pemetrexed are effective in pre-operative treatment of patients with resectable rectal cancer.