Effect of Huaier Granule on Adjuvant Treatment for High-risk Early-stage Triple-negative Breast Cancer
This is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, parallel controlled, open-label study. The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of Huaier Granule on postoperative adjuvant therapy of high-risk early-stage triple-negative invasive ductal carcinoma. The Secondary purposes are to evaluate the safety of long-term use of Huaier granules as postoperative adjuvant treatment of high-risk early-stage triple-negative invasive ductal carcinoma, and the changes of quality of life score after treatment with Huaier granule.
Carcinoma Breast|Triple-negative Breast Cancer|Invasive Ductal Carcinoma, Breast
DRUG: Huaier Granule
3-year rates of disease-free survival, Disease-free survival (DFS)：The time from randomization until the date of the first occurrence of one of the following events: recurrence of ipsilateral invasive breast tumor, local recurrence, distant metastasis, death from any cause, contralateral invasive breast cancer, ipsilateral ductal carcinoma in situ, contralateral ductal carcinoma in situ, second primary invasive carcinoma (except breast cancer).

3-year rates of disease-free survival: The percentage of participants who have not occurred events described in the DFS definition within 3 years., Start of treatment until 3-year follow-up
3-year rates of overall survival, Overall survival (OS): The time from randomization until the date of death from any cause.

3-year rates of overall survival: The percentage of participants who have not died from any cause within 3 years., Start of treatment until 3-year follow-up|3-year rates of invasive-disease-free survival, Invasive-disease-free survival (iDFS): The time from randomization until the date of the first occurrence of one of the following events: recurrence of ipsilateral invasive breast tumor, local recurrence, distant metastasis, death from any cause, contralateral invasive breast cancer, second primary invasive carcinoma (except breast cancer).

3-year rates of invasive-disease-free survival: The percentage of participants who have not occurred events described in the iDFS definition within 3 years., Start of treatment until 3-year follow-up|5-year rates of disease-free survival, 5-year rates of disease-free survival: The percentage of participants who have not occurred events described in the DFS definition within 5 years., Start of treatment until 5-year follow-up|5-year rates of overall survival, 5-year rates of overall survival: The percentage of participants who have not died from any cause within 5 years., Start of treatment until 5-year follow-up|5-year rates of invasive-disease-free survival, 5-year rates of invasive-disease-free survival: The percentage of participants who have not occurred events described in the iDFS definition within 5 years., Start of treatment until 5-year follow-up|Changes in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire, Quality of Life (QOL) will be measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). The scope of each domain is 0 to 100. Higher scores in the functional and general health areas indicate better functional status and quality of life, and higher scores in the symptomatic areas indicate more symptoms or problems (poorer quality of life)., Up to 5 years since the start of treatment|Incidence and severity of AE or SAE, AE: Any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment.

SAE: A serious adverse event (experience) or reaction is any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect., Start of treatment until 3 year after enrollment|Incidence and severity of ADR，SUSAR or SADR, All noxious and unintended responses to a medicinal product related to any dose should be considered adverse drug reactions. A SADR is a serious ADR according to the above criteria of SAE. A SUSAR is an unexpected SADR., Start of treatment until 3 year after enrollment
Triple-negative breast cancer（TNBC） accounts for 10% to 20% of breast cancer. TNBC is more likely to show lymph node involvement at diagnosis, and biologically more aggressive. Women with TNBC have a higher rate of distant recurrence at early-stage and a worse 5-year prognosis than women of other molecular types. Although PARP inhibitors and immune checkpoint inhibitors are showing promise to patients with advanced TNBC, however, these targeted therapies and immunotherapy for TNBC can not increase the clinical benefits of early-stage patients.

As adjuvant therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma after curative liver resection, a multicentre study demonstrated a significant prolongation of RFS and reduced extrahepatic recurrence in Huaier group. Retrospective studies have shown that Huaier granules can improve the rates of disease-free survival（DFS） and overall survival（OS）, and reduce the incidence of adverse events among operable patients with TNBC.

In this study, 1072 high-risk early-stage triple-negative invasive ductal carcinoma participants (536 cases in the observation group and 536 cases in the control group) from 30 research centers will be included. The block randomization was adopted, participants will be randomly divided into the experimental group (Huaier granule plus conventional treatment/visit) and control group (conventional treatment/visit only). All participants will be followed up for 5 years, including 2-year treatment follow-up and 3-year survival follow-up. During the treatment period, the participants will be followed up every 3 months, and the survival follow-up period will be followed up every 6 months.