Safety and Efficacy of Combining APL-101 With Frontline Osimertinib in Patients With EGFR-mutated Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
In this study, patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer that is EGFR-mutated, who have received at least 8 and not more than 12 weeks of treatment with osimertinib without demonstrating disease progression, will receive APL-101 in combination with osimertinib until progression. Dosing of APL-101 will be escalated until the maximum tolerated dose is determined, at which point 10 additional patients will be enrolled at that dose in the expansion cohort.
Metastatic Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: APL-101|DRUG: Osimertinib
Toxicity as measured by number of study treatment related adverse events (Phase I only), -Toxicity is measured by CTCAE v 5.0, Through 30 days after last dose of treatment (estimated to be 21 months)|Toxicity as measured by number of study discontinuations due to treatment-related adverse events (Phase I only), -Toxicity is measured by CTCAE v 5.0, Through 30 days after last dose of treatment (estimated to be 21 months)|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II or received MTD only), * PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Patients who neither progress nor die by the data cutoff date will be censored at the last follow up date.
* Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., At 1 year
Maximum tolerated dose of APL-101 (MTD) (Phase I only), * The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the dose level immediately below the dose level at which 2 patients of a cohort (of 2 to 6 patients) experience dose-limiting toxicity during the first cycle., Through completion of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days) for all Phase I participants (estimated to be 19 months)|Objective response rate as measured by the proportion of participants achieving a confirmed complete response or partial response (Phase II or received MTD only), * Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level.
* Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Through completion of treatment (estimated to be 20 months)|Duration of response (DOR) (Phase II or received MTD only), -Measured from the time measurement criteria are met for complete response, partial response or stable disease (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Through completion of treatment (estimated to be 20 months)|Overall survival (OS) (Phase II or received MTD only), -Overall survival (OS), defined as the duration of time from the start date of study treatment to death from any cause. Patients who are alive by the data cutoff date will be censored at the last follow up date., Through 3 year follow-up (estimated to be 4 years and 8 months)
In this study, patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer that is EGFR-mutated, who have received at least 8 and not more than 12 weeks of treatment with osimertinib without demonstrating disease progression, will receive APL-101 in combination with osimertinib until progression. Dosing of APL-101 will be escalated until the maximum tolerated dose is determined, at which point 10 additional patients will be enrolled at that dose in the expansion cohort.