Vinorelbine Tartrate and Paclitaxel in Treating Older Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well vinorelbine tartrate and paclitaxel works in treating older patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to other placed in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vinorelbine tartrate and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving combination chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Vinorelbine Tartrate
Progression-free Survival., Time from first therapy until first documentation of clinical progression, relapse or death. Progression was defined as per RECIST v1.0 criteria as an at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time to event distributions., Time from first therapy until first documentation of clinical progression, relapse or death assessed up to 5 years
Incidence of >Grade 3 Treatment-Emergent Non-hematological Adverse Events, Toxicity will be assessed at the 0.05 two-sided level of significance. The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0 will be used to grade the severity of adverse events., Up to week 17|Response Rate Based on RECIST Criteria, The measurement of effect will be based on the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors criteria. Response rate is the sum of complete and partial responses. Complete Response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response is defined as an at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To assess the safety and efficacy of a combination of vinorelbine and paclitaxel administered weekly to elderly patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. II. To assess the response rate of a combination of vinorelbine and paclitaxel administered weekly to elderly patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. III. To assess the quality of life of elderly patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer during administration of weekly paclitaxel and vinorelbine. OUTLINE: Patients receive vinorelbine tartrate intravenously (IV) over 6-10 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly for 6 weeks. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 5 years.