Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Dichloroacetate (DCA) in Glioblastoma and Other Recurrent Brain Tumors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of oral Dichloroacetate (DCA) in the treatment of recurrent malignant brain tumors (RMBTs). RMBTs are defined as either: 1) malignant tumors, originating in the brain, that have recurred at least once or 2) malignant tumors originating elsewhere in the body that have spread to the brain at least once. Otherwise, there are no limitations to the number of prior recurrences. There are no limitations to the number or types of prior therapies.
Brain Tumor|Glioblastoma
DRUG: Dichloroacetate
Determine the safety and tolerability of DCA in RMBTs., Oral DCA will be administered until intolerance, toxicity, radiographic progression, or death. Safety and tolerance will be assessed by reviewing available standardized clinical, radiographic, and quality of life (QOL) criteria. The safety and tolerance will also be assessed by reviewing available plasma, urine, and brain tumor tissue for metabolites of the tumor and the effects of DCA thereon., Within 28 days of starting DCA +/- 3 days
Conduct an exploratory investigation of the metabolites of patients with RMBTs and the effects of DCA thereon., We postulate that the metabolism of RMBTs and the effects of DCA thereon will help investigators understand RMBTs, how DCA works on them, and how to design future treatment studies., One year
Malignant brain tumors are defined as any World Health Organization grade III-IV glioma and any solid tumor metastasis (spread) to the brain. Recurrent malignant brain tumors (RMBTs) are defined as either: 1) malignant tumors, originating in the brain, that have recurred at least once or 2) malignant tumors originating elsewhere in the body that have spread to the brain at least once. They share an increasing incidence, clinical and radiographic characteristics, lack of effective therapies, tendency to recur, and poor outcome. Importantly, recurrent malignant brain tumor's shared characteristics may be usefully exploited by an emerging class of biologic agents called metabolic modulators of which Dichloroacetate (DCA) is the drug in the class most thoroughly investigated clinically. DCA's mechanism of action and tolerability have been extensively demonstrated in the treatment of chronic metabolic disorders. Furthermore, the preciseness of DCA's mechanism of action appears to target abnormal tumor cell metabolism.