Reduced-Intensity Conditioning for the Prevention of Treatment-Related Mortality in Patients Who Undergo a Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant
This phase II clinical trial evaluates whether a modified modality of conditioning reduces treatment-related mortality (TRM) in patients who undergo a hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) for a hematological malignancy. HSCT is a curative therapy for many hematopoietic malignancies, however this regimen results in higher rates of TRM than other forms of treatment. In recent years, less intense conditioning regimens with radiation and chemotherapy prior to HSCT have been developed. Radiation therapy uses high energy sources to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors while chemotherapy drugs like fludarabine and cyclophosphamide work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. This study evaluates whether a two-step approach with lower-intensity regimens of these treatments prior to HSCT reduces the rate of TRM.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Aplastic Anemia|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Essential Thrombocythemia|Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelofibrosis|Myeloid Neoplasm|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Polycythemia Vera|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Fludarabine|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation|PROCEDURE: Donor Lymphocyte Infusion|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Melphalan|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Diagnostic Imaging|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Incidence of treatment-related mortality (TRM), TRM is defined as death without evidence of recurrent disease in the 2 year period post HSCT. Summarized using Kaplan-Meier curves and the respective Kaplan-Meier estimates of the 2-year event rate are reported as well as their 95% confidence intervals., At 2 years post hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT)
Development of relapsed disease, Relapse is measured by evidence of recurrent disease in the blood, marrow, or lymph nodes. Summarized using Kaplan-Meier curves and the respective Kaplan-Meier estimates of the 2-year event rate are reported as well as their 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Engraftment, Measure by chimerism studies of the blood and marrow at multiple time points after the HSCT. Chimerism refers to the percentage of donor cells in the hematopoietic system of the patient post HSCT. Reported using mean and standard deviations., Up to 2 years|Immune reconstitution, Evaluated by T-cell recovery and B-cell recovery. Assessed by the quantitative measurement of CD3/4 and CD3/8 cells and immunoglobulin levels in the blood at multiple time points post HSCT. CD3/4 and CD3/8 counts are measured by an immune reconstitution panel and immunoglobulin levels are measured by a quantitative immunoglobulin assay. Reported using mean and standard deviations, Up to 2 years|Incidence and degree of graft versus host disease (GVHD) after HSCT, Assessment includes presence and degree of skin rash, presence and amount of diarrhea, and/or abnormal liver function test. Summarized using Kaplan-Meier curves and the respective Kaplan-Meier estimates of the 2-year event rate are reported as well as their 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the 2 year cumulative incidence of TRM in patients undergoing reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) haploidentical (HI) HSCT in this protocol.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the 2 year cumulative incidence of relapse in patients undergoing RIC HI HSCT in this protocol.

II. To assess the consistency and pace of engraftment. III. To assess the pace of T cell and B cell immune recovery. IV. To assess the incidence and severity of graft versus host disease (GVHD).

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

RADIATION-BASED COHORT: Patients receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) on days -11, -10, -9, and -8, undergo total-body irradiation (TBI) twice a day (BID) on days -10 and -9, undergo donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) on day -6, and receive cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2. Patients begin tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil IV on day -1. Patients then undergo HSCT on day 0. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy/aspiration, imaging and blood sample collection throughout the study.

CHEMOTHERAPY-BASED COHORT: Patients receive fludarabine IV on days -11, -10, -9, and -8 and melphalan IV on days -10 and -9. Patients undergo TBI and DLI once on day -6. Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on days -3 and -2 and begin tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil on day -1. Patients undergo HSCT on day 0. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy/aspiration, imaging and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 2 years.