Phase II Study of Subcutaneous Injection Depot of Leuprolide Acetate in Patient With Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, efficacy and safety of CAM2032 versus Eligard, in patients with prostate cancer. All patients will receive leuprolide acetate administered subcutaneously once monthly during 3 months.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: leuprolide acetate FluidCrystal® injection depot|DRUG: leuprolide acetate
Observed Maximum Serum Leuprolide Concentration (Cmax) for Dose 1 and Dose 3, Blood samples for analysis of serum leuprolide concentrations were collected at pre-determined time points throughout the trial (with full PK profiles after Dose 1 and Dose 3). The PK parameter, Cmax was derived for Doses 1 and 3 of the investigational medicinal product (IMP)., 84 days|Apparent Terminal Half-life (t½) for Dose 1 and Dose 3, Blood samples for analysis of serum leuprolide concentrations were collected at pre-determined time points throughout the trial (with full PK profiles after Dose 1 and Dose 3). The PK parameter, t1/2 was derived for Doses 1 and 3 of the IMP., Days 0-28 and Days 56-84|Area Under the Serum Concentration-time Curve (AUC) Over the Dosing Interval (AUCtau) for Dose 1 and Dose 3, Blood samples for analysis of serum leuprolide concentrations were collected at pre-determined time points throughout the trial (with full PK profiles after Dose 1 and Dose 3). The PK parameter, AUCtau was derived for Doses 1 and 3 of the IMP., Days 0-28 and Days 56-84 (0-672 hours after Doses 1 and 3)
Time (Days) to Testosterone Recovery After Dose 3, The pharmacodynamic (PD) effects of leuprolide were assessed by measuring serum testosterone during the trial. Time to testosterone recovery after last dose of the IMP. Blood samples for analyses of serum testosterone concentrations were collected at Screening and on Days 0 to 126., Days 56-126|Profiles of Testesterone Concentration (ng/dL) Following Injections of the Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP), The PD effects of leuprolide were assessed by measuring serum testosterone concentrations during the trial. The following PD variable was analyzed: The profiles of testosterone concentration (ng/dL) following injections of the IMP. Blood samples for analyses of serum testosterone concentrations were collected at Screening and on Days 0 to 126., Days 0-126|Mean Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Concentration, The PD effects of leuprolide were assessed by measuring serum PSA concentrations during the trial. The following PD variable was analyzed: PSA (ng/mL) response to IMP. Blood samples for analyses of plasma PSA concentrations were collected at Screening and on Days 0 to 126., Days 0-126
The purpose of this study is to assess the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, efficacy and safety of CAM2032 versus Eligard, in patients with prostate cancer. All patients will receive leuprolide acetate administered subcutaneously once monthly during 3 months.