ICIs with and Without MWA in Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Immunotherapy has become the main treatment recommendation for HCC. MWA treatment induces peripheral immune response, which may enhance the effectiveness of immunotherapy for advanced HCC. This study aims to compare the efficacy and safety of ICIs combined with MWA compared to ICIs alone.

The study will compare two groups: ICIs and ICIs+MWA. Main objectives: OS, PFS Secondary objectives: CR PR、SD、PD、ORR、DCR、AEs This study addresses the efficacy and safety of using ICIs in combination with MWA compared to ICIs alone for advanced HCC patients.

The investigators' study aims to evaluate the necessity of immunotherapy combined with targeted drugs or microwave ablation in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in the real world, providing relevant clinical data for the treatment selection of HCC patients.
HCC|Therapy Adverse Effect
DRUG: ICIs|PROCEDURE: ICIs+MWA
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Time from treatment initiation to disease progression or death from any cause., Progression-Free Survival was assessed from the date of treatment initiation until the date of first documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first, assessed up to 24 months.|Overall Survival (OS), Time from treatment initiation to disease progression or death from any cause., Overall Survival was measured from the date of treatment initiation until death from any cause or patients who were still alive at the last follow-up were censored at that time point, assessed up to 36 months.
objective response rate (ORR), According to the mRECIST criteria, the proportion of patients who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., Objective response rate was measured from baseline to 24 months, every 8 weeks or until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal from the study, whichever occurs first.
Research Title: Comparing the Efficacy of ICIs with and without MWA in Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Real Clinical Practice Background: Immunotherapy has become the main treatment recommendation for cancer. Ablation therapy induces peripheral immune response, which may enhance the effectiveness of immunotherapy in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

Main objectives: OS, PFS Secondary objectives: CR PR、SD、PD、ORR、DCR、AEs Research Design: This is a single center, retrospective cohort study. This study addresses the efficacy and safety of using ICIs in combination with MWA compared to ICIs alone for advanced HCC patients.

Meaning: The investigators' study aims to evaluate the necessity of immunotherapy combined with targeted drugs or microwave ablation in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in the real world, providing relevant clinical data for the treatment selection of HCC patients.

Innovation: The innovation of this paper lies in the first verification of the efficacy and safety of microwave ablation (MWA) combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients.

Expected results: The innovation of this paper lies in the first validation of the significant efficacy of microwave ablation (MWA) combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients, significantly improving overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS), as well as objective response rate (ORR) and disease control rate (DCR).

Conclusion: The investigators' study aims to evaluate the necessity of immunotherapy combined with targeted drugs or microwave ablation in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma in the real world, providing relevant clinical data for the treatment selection of HCC patients.