A-RGEMOX in the Treatment of Early Relapsed/Refractory DLBCL
As the most common subtype of lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive but potentially curable malignancy. However, patients with early relapse (relapse within 12 months since diagnosis or the end of first-line treatment, ER) or primary refractory had an even worse prognosis. Thus, the investigators plan to evaluate the efficacy and safety of anlotinib combined with rituximab, gemcitabine, oxaliplatin (A-RGEMOX) in the treatment of early relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma Recurrent|Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma Refractory
DRUG: Anlotinib hydrochloride, Rituximab, gemcitabine, oxaliplatin
CRR, Complete Remission Rate, 21days after the end of treatment
ORR, overall response rate, 21days after the end of treatment|PFS, Progression Free Survival, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years|OS, Overall Survival, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented date of death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|PRR, Partial Remission Rate, 21days after the end of treatment|AE and SAE, Adverse event and serious adverse event, From date of first day of treatment until 30 day after last treatment
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), the most common subtype of lymphoma, accounts for about 30%-40% of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas and is highly heterogeneous in terms of clinical presentation and biological behavior. About 10% of patients are resistant to first-line immunochemotherapy, and up to 30%-40% of patients will relapse after treatment. Patients with relapsed/refractory (R/R) DLBCL showed poor prognosis, with a median overall survival of only 6.3 months. Those with early relapse (relapse within 12 months since diagnosis or the end of first-line treatment, ER) or primary refractory had an even worse prognosis. So there is an unmet need for treatment in this population. Previous reports and our unpublished data showed the potential connection between angiogenesis and first-line treatment failure. Accordingly, we assume that the combination of anlotinib and RGEMOX regimen may improve the response rate of patients with early relapsed/refractory DLBCL, increasing the feasibility of follow-up ASCT, and improving long-term survival of this subgroup of patients.