No Axillary Surgery for Early Breast Cancer.
After breast cancer (BC) screening was introduced for all Swedish women in 1989-90 the number of early invasive BC, clin N0 rose dramatically. For these BC it was known that only 10 % or less was N+ after axillary dissection and the morbidity for axillary surgery was substantial. Omitting axillary dissection in a randomized trial was ruled out because of anticipated few events. A national cohort was decided for invasive unifocal BC, histological grade 1 or 2, T=max 10mm, free margins, clin node neg. No axillary dissection should be undertaken. This was before the Sentinel Node era. Adjuvant treatment could be given according to regional guidelines for early breast cancer. Not uniform concerning postoperative radiotherapy and antihormonal treatment. Follow-up was clinical the first 5 years with mammography and then by hospital records and national Death register. Primary aim: Number of axillary recurrence and BC specific survival.
Breast Cancer Invasive
PROCEDURE: Omitting axillary surgery in early breast cancer
Axillary recurrence, Time to axillary node recurrence, at 15 years
Breast cancer specific survival (BCSS), Breast cancer specific survival, at 15 years|Breast cancer specific survival according to given adjuvant treatment, BCSS for patients given postop radiotherapy to the breast or no radiotherapy, at 15 years
After national breast cancer screening was introduced in Sweden in 1989-90 the number of early invasive BC, clin N0 rose dramatically. Only 10 % or less of these was N+ after axillary dissection with a substantial morbidity after the axillary intervention. Omitting axillary dissection in a randomized trial was ruled out because of anticipated few events. A national cohort was decided for invasive unifocal BC, Screening or clinical diagnosis were eligible, only histological grade 1 or 2, T=max 10mm, free margins , clinical node negative. No axillary dissection should be undertaken, only radical removal of the breast cancer. (Note; This was before the Sentinel Node era). Adjuvant treatment could be given according to regional guidelines for early breast cancer as no regular national guidelines existed then concerning postoperative radiotherapy and antihormonal treatment. Chemotherapy was not recommended to this type of breast cancer. Follow-up was done by the treating surgeon the first 5 years including mammography. Then hospital records including mammography and reports from Pathology and Oncology and Death register were followed at intervals 5, 10 and 15 years. Primary aim: Number of axillary recurrence and distant metastases/ BC specific survival. Correlation to adjuvant therapy. Inclusion started in 1997 and ended in 2002. 1584 patients were included. If the axillary recurrence rate was more than 1% per year the first five years the inclusion should be stopped.