MK-2206, Paclitaxel and Trastuzumab in Treating Patients With HER2-overexpressing Solid Tumor Malignancies
The purpose of this study is to test the safety and safest highest dose of an investigational drug called MK-2206 when given in combination with paclitaxel and trastuzumab in patients with Human Epidermal growth factor Receptor 2 (HER2)-overexpressing solid tumor malignancies.
Advanced Solid Tumors|Tumors|Cancer
DRUG: MK-2206|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and Recommended Phase 2 Dose of MK-2206 Administered Weekly in Combination With Weekly Paclitaxel 80 mg/m^2 and Trastuzumab 2 mg/m^2, The MTD was defined as the dose level resulting in 3 or fewer DLTs in 11 patients, per the modified toxicity probability interval (TPI) method (Ji Y, Li Y, Nebiyou Bekele B: Dose-ﬁnding in phase I clinical trials based on toxicity probability intervals. Clin Trials 4:235-244, 2007), and confirmed in 4 additional patients. Based on interim toxicity data from other studies, the dose was not escalated beyond 135 mg weekly., 30 days from initiation of dose
Best Disease Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST), Version 1.1, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression).

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufﬁcient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufﬁcient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study

Non-PR/Non-PD: clinical response of chest wall disease not evaluable by RECIST, 60 days after dose inititation
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MK-2206 in combination with paclitaxel and trastuzumab when given to patients with HER2-overexpressing solid tumor malignancies. MK-2206 is an oral drug (taken by mouth) that turns off a protein called AKT inside cancer cells. This could be helpful in treating treatment-resistant cancers, because AKT allows cells to survive despite active anticancer treatment. In the case of HER2-positive cancers, laboratory studies suggest that the drug combination of MK-2206 and paclitaxel and trastuzumab may be effective.