Pre-Operative Pembrolizumab + Chemoradiation in Patients With Locally Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
To investigate the safety and activity of preoperative pembrolizumab combined with chemoradiotherapy for resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) ,20 patients enrolled in Phase Ib PALACE-1(NCT03792347).The results showed that preoperative pembrolizumab with concurrent chemoradiotherapy was safe, did not delay surgery and induced a pCR in 55.6% of resected tumors. In this multicentre prospective study(PALACE-2),the investigators will evaluate the efficacy of preoperative pembrolizumab with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab Injection
Pathologic complete response, Pathologic complete response was defined as pT0N0M0, 1 month after resection
3-year disease free survival, Percentage of Participants With 3-Year disease-Free Survival (DFS), as Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST)1.1. Disease free survival defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented disease progression of local recurrence or distant metastasis or death due to any cause., 3 years after resection|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from enrollment to death due to any cause, 5 years
For locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC), neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery has been recommended as the optimal therapeutic strategy.Patients who achieved pathologic complete response(pCR) after receiving neoadjuvant therapy were more likely to have better survival. And the pCR rates was 43.2% reported in NEOCRTEC5010 trial, 49% with ESCC in the CROSS trial and 33.3% in FFCD 990130.

In Phase Ib PALACE-1(NCT03792347), the investigators firstly present that preoperative pembrolizumab combined with chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery is safe.All 20 patients have received PPCT successfully, except 1 patient who missed the last dose of chemotherapy due to leukopenia. Grade 3 and higher adverse events (AEs) were observed in 13 patients (13/20, 65%), and 1 patient had a grade 5 AE. The most frequent grade 3 AE was lymphopenia (12/13, 92%). Eighteen patients underwent surgery within 4-9 weeks after PPCT and the pCR rate was 55.6% (10/18).

This study (PALACE-2) will evaluate the efficacy of preoperative pembrolizumab with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma in multicentres.