A Pilot Study: Focused Ultrasound Thalamotomy for the Prevention of Secondary Generalization in Focal Onset Epilepsy
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and feasibility of Magnetic Resonance Imaging-guided focused ultrasound (MRgFUS) in patients with epilepsy whose medicines are not working well. The ExAblate (ExAblate) transcranial system is the name of the device that will be used to create and send ultrasound waves through the scalp and skull precisely to a small structure located in the center of the brain. This structure is known as the "Anterior Nucleus", and is an important region in the brain that may cause the seizures. Safety will be measured by recording and analyzing any adverse effects that may occur from the day of the experimental surgery through 12 months following the surgery.
Partial Seizures With Secondary Generalization
DEVICE: High Intensity Focused Ultrasound
Number of Participants with Successful Lesion Creation, Feasibility is defined as the ability to create the desired lesion within the anterior nucleus in 80% or more of participants., during the surgical procedure|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, Safety will be assessed by the absence of side effects, e.g. new onset of neurological deficits, performance deterioration on neuropsychological testing., 12 months
Change in Number of Seizures Reported Across Time, Captured by participant-recorded seizure diaries. Assessed at Baseline, and months 3, 6, and 12., up to 12 months|Total QOLIE-31-P Score Across Time, The Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory-31-Problems (QOLIE-31-P) is a survey of health-related quality of life for adults with epilepsy. The QOLIE-31-P is completed by the patient. It contains 39 items, of which a total of 30 are used to make up 7 different subscales. Scores range from 0-100, with higher scores indicating a greater level of functioning and QoL. Assessed at Baseline, and months 3, 6, and 12., up to 12 months|Change MRI parameter (Water Diffusivity), Water Diffusivity assessed by structural and microstructural MRI in a voxel-wise manner and compared between pre and post operative MRI., Baseline, (Day 1), Month 3
This is a open-label prospective intervention study. Ten (10) adults with refractory, partial-onset epilepsy with secondary generalization and able to provide informed consent will be enrolled. In addition to the diagnosis of medically refractory epilepsy, these patients will need to meet protocol specific inclusion and exclusion criteria. These adults will be screened from the patients being cared for by the epilepsy program at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill or referred from elsewhere for enrollment in the study. Initially, 3 participants will be enrolled and followed for 3 months to assess the safety of study intervention. Pending review by the Data and Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC), an additional 7 participants will be enrolled.

This pilot study is being conducted to test the feasibility of this device in order to confirm the design and operating specifications of the device including the ability to identify and accurately ablate the target focus within the Anterior Nucleus.

Safety will be assessed by the absence of side effects, e.g., new onset of neurological deficits, performance deterioration on neuropsychological testing. Feasibility is defined as the ability to create the desired lesion within the anterior nucleus.

Seizure frequency data will be collected by seizure diary. Quality of life will be measured by the Quality of Life in Epilepsy Inventory (QOLIE-31). Imaging analysis will include study of changes in resting state functional connectivity (assessed by fMRI), as well as in structural (assessed by volumetric T1 and T2 weighted imaging) and microstructural (assessed by diffusion tensor imaging) brain anatomy.