Identifying Family Members in Need of Support While Caregiving and After Loss
This screening tool will be used to identify significant relations of patients with advanced medical illness or serious hospitalization and family individuals who lost their loved one and who could use professional support in the future. We are interested in enrolling family members or close friends of patients with advanced medical illness as well as family members or close friends who have lost a loved one. Some screening tools to identify family members who might need support do exist, but the investigators are hoping to develop one that is brief and easier for healthcare providers to use. The information learned in this study will help us refine the screening tool. Family member input will be essential in the development of this screening tool.
Advanced Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: background questionnaire|BEHAVIORAL: bereavement risk screening tool
to refine the bereavement risk screening tool and its items based on respondent feedback., we will obtain family member input on the pre- and post-loss versions of the screening tool; we will obtain input from a separate sample of family members on a revised version of the screening tool that incorporates feedback, 1 year
This screening tool will be used to identify significant relations of patients with advanced medical illness or serious hospitalization and family individuals who lost their loved one and who could use professional support in the future. We are interested in enrolling family members or close friends of patients with advanced medical illness as well as family members or close friends who have lost a loved one. Some screening tools to identify family members who might need support do exist, but the investigators are hoping to develop one that is brief and easier for healthcare providers to use. The information learned in this study will help us refine the screening tool. Family member input will be essential in the development of this screening tool.