DETECT: Target Volume for Rectal Endoluminal Radiation Boosting
The aim of the study is to provide prospective data regarding microscopic tumor spread in all directions from the macroscopic tumor in pathology specimens, as seen by eye, and on imaging to define the target volume for endoluminal radiation boosting in rectal cancer patients.
Rectal Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Ultrasound|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Rectoscopy|OTHER: Scan, e.g. CT (resection specimen)
Maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread per patient in all directions from the macroscopic tumor remnant in the pathology specimen, The maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread in all directions from the macroscopic remnant in the specimen will be measured per patient in millimeters by the pathology department in the pathologic resection specimens., During post-resection pathological analysis (i.e. approximately 14 days post-resection)
Maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread per patient from the macroscopic tumor remnant in the pathology specimen, reported separately for MTS perpendicular to the bowel wall and for MTS parallel to the bowel wall, Measured per patient in millimeters by the pathology department in the pathologic resection specimens. Microscopic tumor spread perpendicular to the bowel wall and parallel to the bowel wall will be reported separately., During post-resection pathological analysis (i.e. approximately 14 days post-resection)|Maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread per patient in all directions from the macroscopic tumor remnant in the pathology specimen excluding ypT0 patients, Measured per patient in millimeters by the pathology department in the pathologic resection specimens. For this secondary outcome, this will be reported excluding all ypT0 patients., During post-resection pathological analysis (i.e. approximately 14 days post-resection)|Maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread per patient in all directions from the macroscopic tumor remnant in the pathology specimen only including patients with microscopic tumor spread, Measured per patient in millimeters by the pathology department in the pathologic resection specimens. For this secondary outcome, this will be reported only for patients with microscopic tumor spread., During post-resection pathological analysis (i.e. approximately 14 days post-resection)|Maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread per patient in all directions from the macroscopic tumor remnant in the pathology specimen only for patients with regrowths, Measured per patient in millimeters by the pathology department in the pathologic resection specimens. For this secondary outcome, this will be reported only for patients with regrowths., During post-resection pathological analysis (i.e. approximately 14 days post-resection)|Tissue deformation factor/model to compensate for tissue deformation due to removal of the specimen from the body, formalin fixation and tissue processing at the pathology department, The deidentified images of the flexible endoscopy and in vivo MRI scan will be collected for the study. During the certain parts of the pathologic process, e.g. before and after fixation, MRIs of the pathological specimens of some of the patients will be made. These deidentified images of the specimens, together with e.g. the deidentified endoscopic, rectoscopic, ultrasound and in vivo MR images and possibly with optical images taken during pathological analysis, will be used to develop the deformation model.

The flexible endoscopy and in vivo MRI scan are both taken approximately 6-8 weeks post-neoadjuvant treatment. The images of the rigid rectoscopy and 3D endorectal ultrasound are taken directly before TME surgery., The tissue deformation model will be created once all required data (e.g. MRI scans, rectoscopy images, endorectal ultrasound images) is available (approximately 14 days post-surgery for the final included patient).|Maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread per patient in all directions from the macroscopic tumor remnant as seen by eye and/or on imaging, The tissue deformation factor/model and the location of the microscopic tumor spread in relation to the macroscopic remnant determined during pathological analysis, will be used to determine the maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread in relation to the macroscopic tumor as seen by eye (rectoscopically/endoscopically) and/or on imaging (endo-ultrasound, MRI) per patient in all directions.

The flexible endoscopy and in vivo MRI scan are both taken approximately 6-8 weeks post-neoadjuvant treatment. The images of the rigid rectoscopy and 3D endorectal ultrasound are taken directly before TME surgery., When the tissue deformation model is finished (approximately 3 months after all data for every patient is available). For the imaging time frames: please refer to the description.|Treatment margin (in the various directions) relative to the macroscopic tumor to cover 90% and 95% of all microscopic tumor spread, Distance that covers the microscopic tumor spread in all directions in millimeters for 90 and 95% of patients, including 95% confidence intervals, both reported including and excluding ypT0 patients. Reported both by eye and on imaging, for which among others the tissue deformation model will be used., Once the microscopic tumor spread is determined for all patients (approximately 14 days post-surgery for the final included patient), the treatment margins will be calculated.|Evaluation of risk factors for the presence and/or the extent of microscopic tumor spread identified by the meta-analysis we performed, These risk factors include pathological T stage after chemoradiation (ypT stage) and time interval between neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and surgery., ypT stage is determined during post-resection pathological analysis (i.e. approximately 14 days post-resection). The time interval is determined at the day of surgery.
Identification of potential risk factors for the presence and the extent of microscopic tumor spread not yet identified by our meta-analysis, Potential risk factors include among others ycT stage, regrowths/local recurrence, diameter, predominant histologic grade, tumor regression score/grade (pathologically), vascular invasion, lymphatic invasion, perineural invasion, microsatellite instability (MSI) and parameters related to in vivo MR imaging., Most are determined during post-resection path. analysis (approx. 14 days post-resection). ycT stage is determined approx. 6-10 weeks post-neoadjuvant treatment (multidisciplinary team), in vivo imaging is done approx 6-8 weeks post-neoadjuvant treatment|Analysis of (re)biopsy material, This includes the biopsy material at time of diagnosis, and also the rebiopsy material for patients with tumor regrowths/local recurrence after an initial clinical complete response and a "watch and wait" approach. These (re)biopsies are a part of the standard diagnostic work-up. Part of this analysis will be performed during this study by reassessment of the histology of the biopsy material and/or if applicable the rebiopsy material., Biopsy material is obtained at time of diagnosis.
This study is a prospective multicentre cohort trial in ≥50 patients with a residual ycT1-3N0 tumor after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy or radiotherapy for rectal adenocarcinoma at least 6 weeks after the neoadjuvant treatment.

In addition to standard workup and treatment (e.g. a flexible endoscopy and an MRI scan at 6-8 weeks post-neoadjuvant therapy), patients will undergo pre-operatively, after induction of general anaesthesia, an endorectal ultrasound and rigid rectoscopy as study procedures if these procedures are not already part of standard workup. Furthermore, the pathological specimens of some patients will be scanned using MR imaging during certain parts of the pathological process.

Objectives include determining the maximum distance of microscopic tumor spread per patient in all directions, creating a tissue deformation model to account for changes due to e.g. fixation and pathological processing, using this tissue deformation model to translate the microscopic tumor spread back to the in vivo situation (e.g. back to in vivo MRI scans, 3D endo-ultrasounds), and evaluating/determining risk factors for the presence and/or extent of microscopic tumor spread.

This data will be used for target volume definition in rectal endoluminal radiation boosting.