Dose Escalation Study in Female Subjects With Breast Cancer Receiving Aromatase Inhibitor or Tamoxifen
Open-label, two dose study of Q-122, over a 4 week treatment period to explore the effects of Q-122 in a population of women with a history of breast cancer taking an aromatase inhibitor or tamoxifen.
Vasomotor Symptoms (VMS)
DRUG: oral capsule of Q-122
Adverse Event (AE) Reporting of Q-122, Number of participants with indicated AE receiving Q-122, 4 weeks|Serious Adverse Event (SAE) Reporting of Q-122, Number of participants with indicated SAE receiving Q-122, 4 weeks|Change in Frequency of Moderate to Severe Vasomotor Symptoms., Mean change in frequency of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms. Daily patient (paper) diaries will be used as the primary efficacy collection tool. Change from baseline represents the mean change from the daily average frequency calculated at baseline to the daily average frequency calculated for the last week the subject was on drug. The hot flash severity categories are defined clinically as follow: mild, sensation of heat without perspiration; moderate, sensation of heat with perspiration, but subject is able to continue with activity; and severe. sensation of heat with sweating, sufficiently severe to result in discontinuation of activity., Baseline to 4 weeks|Percent Change in Frequency of Moderate to Severe Vasomotor Symptoms., Percent reduction in frequency of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms. Daily patient (paper) diaries will be used as the primary efficacy collection tool. The hot flash severity categories are defined clinically as follows: mild, sensation of heat without perspiration; moderate, sensation of heat with perspiration, but subject is able to continue with activity; and severe, sensation of heat with sweating, sufficiently severe to result in discontinuation of activity., Baseline to 4 weeks
Change in Hot Flash Severity Score, For moderate-to-severe (mod/sev) hot flashes (HF), a score will be calculated by multiplying the number of moderate-to-severe HFs by their severity to determine the HF (mod/sev) index score, using the following formula: HFSSmod/sev = (number of moderate hot flashes/day × 2) + (number of severe hot flashes/day x 3). The Average Daily HFSSmod/sev for each week will be calculated by dividing the total of daily HFSSmod/sev by the number of days observations will be recorded in that week. The change in score is of clinical significance, with a lower score representing less moderate to severe hot flashes and a higher score representing a greater number of moderate to severe hot flashes., Baseline to 4 weeks|Percent Change in Hot Flash Severity Score, For moderate-to-severe (mod/sev) hot flashes (HF), a score will be calculated by multiplying the number of moderate-to-severe HFs by their severity to determine the HF (mod/sev) index score, using the following formula: HFSSmod/sev = (number of moderate hot flashes/day × 2) + (number of severe hot flashes/day x 3). The Average Daily HFSSmod/sev for each week will be calculated by dividing the total of daily HFSSmod/sev by the number of days observations will be recorded in that week., Baseline to 4 weeks|Symptoms Associated With Postmenopausal Status, Greene Climacteric Scale: A comprehensive assessment divided into psychological, physical and vasomotor areas. The scale includes 21 symptoms, subject will score the severity of each symptom with the following score system: 0 = not at all; 1 = a little; 2 = quite a bit; and 3 = extremely. The results represent the total combined score, which can range from 0 to 63. A lower score represents a better outcome., Baseline and 4 weeks
Vasomotor symptoms are significant in postmenopausal women with the most effective medications for relief being hormonal preparations. Non-hormonal medications have demonstrated efficacy but at a far lower level than estrogen replacement therapy. For women with a history of breast cancer hormone replacement therapy is problematic especially if their therapeutic regime involves an aromatase inhibitor. Therefore, this study will explore the effect of Q-122 in a population of women with a history of breast cancer taking an aromatase inhibitor or tamoxifen.

The study is an open-label, two dose study (Group 1: 100 mg once daily and Group 2: 200 mg once daily) of Q-122, over a 4 week treatment period. As eligible subjects are enrolled, they will be assigned to Group 1 until Group 1 is fully enrolled. Dose escalation to the 200 mg level will only occur following a review of the safety experience of at least 6 subjects treated with 100 mg Q-122 once daily for at least 2 weeks. Once Group 1 is fully enrolled, eligible subjects will be enrolled into Group 2.

A two-week screening phase will be used to establish a stable baseline of vasomotor symptoms and to establish study eligibility. Qualified subjects will be treated with Q-122 for four weeks either at 100 mg/day dose or the 200 mg/day dose, during which time they will be evaluated for safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of Q-122 and tamoxifen levels; subjects will continue to record their hot flashes in identical fashion to the screening period. Following the 28 day treatment, period subjects who complete the study will continue to record their hot flashes for a two week follow up period.