A Feasibility Study to Evaluate The Effect of the Electronic Patient Visit Assessment On Pain and Quality of Life for Patients With Head and Neck Cancer (HNC)
This randomized, non-blinded, phase 0/I study will assess the feasibility of conducting a large randomized clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of the ePVA to improve pain management and HRQoL in HNC. Thirty participants undergoing radiation therapy (RT) (with or without chemotherapy) will be randomized to: 1) ePVA intervention or 2) usual care. The intervention consists of participants completing the ePVA every other week during radiation therapy (RT), then weeks 4, 12, and 24 after end of RT. Automated reports of ePVA data, including pain reports and patient-reports of pain medications, will be sent to providers to inform their clinical decisions.
Head and Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Electronic Patient Visit Assessment (ePVA)
Patient completion of 6 out of 7 assessments, This is defined as a binary yes/no variable as to whether a participant completed 6 out of 7 assessments., 24 weeks
Change in health-related quality of life, Measured by EORTC QLQ-C30 global QoL/health scale, which consists of 30 questions, building five functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, social), a global QoL/health scale, symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, sleep disturbance, appetite loss, constipation and diarrhea) and perceived financial difficulties. The scale will be transformed to scores 0 to 100 (100 indicates best quality of life and 0 indicates least)., Baseline, week 4, week 12, week 24|Change in pain severity, Measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-H\&N-35 pain scale. The scale will be transformed to scores 0 to 100 (0 indicates least and 100 indicates most symptoms)., Baseline, Day 7, Day 21, Day 35
This randomized, non-blinded, phase 0/I study will assess the feasibility of conducting a large randomized clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of the ePVA to improve pain management and HRQoL in HNC. Thirty participants undergoing radiation therapy (RT) (with or without chemotherapy) will be randomized to: 1) ePVA intervention or 2) usual care. The intervention consists of participants completing the ePVA every other week during radiation therapy (RT), then weeks 4, 12, and 24 after end of RT. Automated reports of ePVA data, including pain reports and patient-reports of pain medications, will be sent to providers to inform their clinical decisions.