A Phase I-II Study to Test the Safety and Efficacy of PD1 (AB122) and Adenosine Receptor (AB928) Antagonists With Chemotherapy After Short-Course Radiation for Rectal Cancer.
Enrolled patients will receive upfront (week 1) short-course radiotherapy to gross pelvic disease (25Gy in 5fx) in combination with AB928 (150 mg orally, once daily as part of a continuous dose regimen). This will be followed by consolidation chemotherapy (weeks 3-20) with mFOLFOX x9 cycles in combination with AB928 and AB122.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Etrumadenant (AB928)|RADIATION: Radiation therapy|DRUG: FOLFOX regimen|DRUG: Zimberelimab (AB122)
Number of treated patients who achieve complete pathologic response, The primary endpoint is the proportion of treated rectal cancer patients who achieve a complete pathologic response.

All patients will be offered surgical resection however those who achieve a clinical CR at the time of clinical response assessment may choose a non-operative management approach. Due to practicality the latter will be included as complete responders at the time of analysis for this trial., Week 24
Number of patients who experience treatment-related adverse events, Number of patients with treatment-related early and late adverse events as assessed by the CTCAE version 5.0, Day 5 of radiation therapy|Number of patients who experience treatment-related adverse events, Number of patients with treatment-related early and late adverse events as assessed by the CTCAE version 5.0, 3 months|Number of patients who experience treatment-related adverse events, Number of patients with treatment-related early and late adverse events as assessed by the CTCAE version 5.0, 6 months|Number of patients who experience treatment-related adverse events, Number of patients with treatment-related early and late adverse events as assessed by the CTCAE version 5.0, 12 months|Number of patients who experience treatment-related adverse events, Number of patients with treatment-related early and late adverse events as assessed by the CTCAE version 5.0, 60 months|Progression free survival, PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression., 36 months|Overall survival, Overall Survival is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment until death., 60 months
Enrolled patients will receive upfront (week 1) short-course radiotherapy to gross pelvic disease (25Gy in 5fx) in combination with AB928 (150 mg orally, once daily as part of a continuous dose regimen). This will be followed by consolidation chemotherapy (weeks 3-20) with mFOLFOX x9 cycles in combination with AB928 and AB122. Patients will thereafter be assessed for therapeutic responses (week 22-24) with a digital rectal examination, pelvic MRI, and endoscopy. Each case will be reviewed by the Weill Cornell Medicine Colorectal Multidisciplinary Tumor Board for consensus agreement regarding clinical treatment response. The patients thereafter will proceed with total mesorectal excision (TME, week 24) by transabdominal resection for pathologic evaluation (primary tumor and pelvic lymph nodes will be examined).