Optimal Extent of Pulmonary Resection in Clinical Stage IA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The investigatros hypothesized that selection of surgical procedure according to the pre-defined institutional decision-making algorithm will not compromise the treatment outcomes including overall survival and disease-free survival in participants with clinical stage IA non-small cell lung cancer.

The purpose of this study is to determine the outcome of participants with clinical stage IA NSCLC treated by 3 types of surgical resection (wide wedge resection, segmentectomy, or lobectomy) according to the institutional decision-making algorithm

The investigators are planning to enroll 1,000 participants who meet the pre-defined eligibility criteria over 5 years.
Stage IA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: Extent of pulmonary resection
Disease-free survival (DFS), the time from the date of the operation until the first recurrence or the last follow-up., 5 years
Overall survival (OS), the interval between the date of the operation and the date of death from any cause or the last follow-up, 5 years|Rate of loco-regional recurrence, Loco-regional recurrence means tumor recurrence within the ipsilateral hemithorax and mediastinum, 5 years|Rate of systemic recurrence, Systemic recurrence means tumor recurrence outside the bilateral hemithorax or mediastinum except for lung-to-lung metastasis, 5 years|Postoperative FEV1 (Forced expiratory volume in 1 second; Liter), the volume exhaled during the first second of a forced expiratory maneuver started from the level of total lung capacity. This value reflects the pulmonary function of participants, 6 months, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, 48 months, 60 months after operation date|Postoperative DLco (Diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide; mL/mmHg/min), the extent to which oxygen passes from the air sacs of the lungs into the blood. This value is also related to the pulmonary function of participants, 6 months, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months, 48 months, 60 months after operation date|C/T ratio at thin section CT scans, C/T ratio is the consolidation/tumor ratio, which can be measured by the maximum diameter of consolidation to the maximum tumor diameter. Pathologic invasiveness of tumors can be predicted by this value., within 2 months prior to operation date|Postoperative pathologic subtypes, (according to the 2015 WHO classification of lung tumors), 1 month after operation date|Incidence of lymph node metastasis, The investigators will check the incidence of lymph node metastasis from the permanent pathology report., within 1 month after operation date
1. Background

   * The standard extent of pulmonary resection for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is still lobectomy. However, recent advances in imaging technology and staging modalities and the widespread use of computed tomography (CT) screening have greatly increased the probability of detecting small-sized tumors, especially with ground-glass opacity (GGO) feature. Adenocarcinoma with GGO feature generally has a good prognosis due to its minimally invasive nature. Many studies have shown that these pathologically less invasive subtypes are associated with better prognoses compared with other subtypes such as acinar, papillary, micropapillary, and solid predominant invasive adenocarcinoma.
   * This recent change in the disease pattern of NSCLC from locally advanced and solid tumors to early and less invasive tumors with GGO features have led to a resurgence of interest in sublobar resection. Several retrospective studies have been conducted to compare the early and late outcomes including long-term survival between patients who underwent lobectomy and those who underwent sublobar resection.
   * Multiple reports have suggested that small-sized peripheral lung adenocarcinoma can be treated by sublobar resection, yielding survival rates similar to those of lobectomy. Lobectomy is considered to be too much for these less invasive tumors and sublobar resection would be sufficient for these tumors. If sublobar resection is equivalent to lobectomy in terms of their oncologic efficacy for the surgical treatment of NSCLC, the potential benefits of sublobar resection include (1) the preservation of vital lung parenchyma and pulmonary function, which may lead to improved early morbidities and mortalities and then late quality of life and (2) a chance for a second resection with a subsequent primary NSCLC.
   * However, when considering the published evidence for sublobar resection, its interpretation needs to be cautious. Since most studies were non-randomized, there may also have been selection bias in terms of preoperative patient risk factors (intentional vs. compromised sublobar resection), tumors of various histological subtypes or different tumor size in the study arms. Therefore, the results from two randomized trials of lobectomy versus sublobar resection for small-sized lung cancer currently ongoing in Japan (Japan Clinical Oncology Group \[0802\]) and in the United States (Cancer and Leukemia Group B \[140503\]) need to be awaited.
   * Based on these clinical circumstances and the published evidence, the investigators developed the decision-making algorithm regarding the surgical treatment for clinical stage IA NSCLC.
2. Hypothesis The investigators hypothesized that selection of surgical procedure according to the pre-defined institutional decision-making algorithm will not compromise the treatment outcomes including overall survival and disease-free survival in patients with clinical stage IA non-small cell lung cancer.
3. Purpose The purpose of this study is to determine the outcome of participants with clinical stage IA NSCLC treated by 3 types of surgical resection (wide wedge resection, segmentectomy, or lobectomy) according to the institutional decision-making algorithm
4. Study plan The investigators are planning to enroll 1,000 participants who meet the pre-defined eligibility criteria over 5 years.