A Study to Compare Zolbetuximab (IMAB362) and Chemotherapy With Placebo and Chemotherapy in Adults With Gastric Cancer.
Zolbetuximab is being studied in people with cancer in and around the stomach or where the food pipe (esophagus) joins the stomach, called gastroesophageal junction (GEJ) cancer. Most people with this type of cancer have a protein called Claudin 18.2 in their tumor. Zolbetuximab is thought to work by attaching to the Claudin 18.2 protein in their tumor, which switches on the body's immune system to attack the tumor. There is an unmet medical need to treat people with advanced stomach cancer or GEJ cancer. This study will give more information about how well zolbetuximab works when given with chemotherapy in adults with advanced stomach cancer or GEJ cancer. In this study, adults with advanced stomach cancer or GEJ cancer will either be given zolbetuximab with chemotherapy or a placebo with chemotherapy. A placebo looks like zolbetuximab but doesn't have any medicine in it. Zolbetuximab with chemotherapy has already been approved to treat gastric cancer and GEJ cancer in some countries. This study is being done in countries where zolbetuximab has not yet been approved for use. If zolbetuximab becomes approved for use in those countries taking part in this study, the study doctor will switch study treatment in those countries to the licensed zolbetuximab. If this happens, people taking part in those countries will leave this study and receive licensed zolbetuximab.

The main aim of the study is to check if zolbetuximab and chemotherapy can prevent or delay the worsening of people's gastric cancer and GEJ cancer compared to placebo and chemotherapy.

Adults with advanced stomach cancer or GEJ cancer can take part. Locally advanced means the cancer has spread to nearby tissue. Unresectable means the cancer cannot be removed by surgery. Metastatic means the cancer has spread to other parts of the body. A tumor sample of their cancer will also have the Claudin 18.2 protein. They may have been previously treated with certain standard therapies, but have not been treated with chemotherapy for their cancer. People cannot take part if they need to take medicines to suppress their immune system, have blockages or bleeding in their gut, have specific uncontrollable cancers such as symptomatic or untreated cancers in the nervous system, or have a specific heart condition, or infections.

The study treatments are either zolbetuximab with chemotherapy, or placebo with chemotherapy. People who take part will receive just 1 of the study treatments by chance. Study treatment will be double-blinded. That means that the people in the study and the study doctors will not know who takes which of the study treatments. Study treatment will be given in cycles. The study treatment is given to people slowly through a tube into a vein. This is called an infusion. People will have 4 infusions in 6-week (42-day) cycles as follows:

* Zolbetuximab or placebo - 2 infusions in a cycle.
* Chemotherapy (called modified FOLFOX6 or mFOLFOX6) - 3 infusions in a cycle. The first infusion is combined with zolbetuximab or placebo on day 1 of each cycle. People may receive zolbetuximab or placebo until their cancer worsens, they cannot tolerate the study treatment, or they need to start another cancer treatment. People will receive mFOLFOX6 for up to 6 months (4 study treatment cycles). After the 6 months people may receive chemotherapy containing folinic acid and fluorouracil instead of mFOLFOX6. People may receive folinic acid and fluorouracil chemotherapy for more than 6 months, or until their cancer worsens, they cannot tolerate the study treatment, or they need to start another cancer treatment. People will visit the clinic on certain days during their study treatment. The study doctors will check if people had any medical problems from taking zolbetuximab or the other study treatments. Also, people in the study will have health checks. On some visits they will have scans to check for any changes in their cancer. People will have the option of giving a tumor sample after their study treatment has finished. People will visit the clinic after they stop their study treatment. People who start treatment with licensed zolbetuximab or mFOLFOX6 outside of this study will not need to visit the clinic. People will be asked about any medical problems and will have a health check. People will visit the clinic at 1 month after they stop their study treatment. People will continue to have scans every 9 or 12 weeks to check for any changes in their cancer. People will have telephone health checks every 3 months. The number of visits and checks done at each visit will depend on the health of each person and whether they completed their study treatment or not.
Locally Advanced Unresectable Gastroesophageal Junction (GEJ) Adenocarcinoma or Cancer|Locally Advanced Unresectable Gastric Adenocarcinoma or Cancer|Metastatic Gastric Adenocarcinoma or Cancer|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction (GEJ) Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: zolbetuximab|DRUG: placebo|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: folinic acid|DRUG: fluorouracil
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of radiological progressive disease (PD) (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1 by independent review committee \[IRC\]) or death from any cause, whichever was earliest. PD was defined as development of new, or progression of existing metastases to the primary cancer under the study. Kaplan -Meier (KM) estimates was used., From date of randomization until the date of first documented radiological progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurred first (up to 62 months and 18 days)
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause. Kaplan-Meier estimates was used., From the date of randomization until 62 months and 18 days|Time to Confirmed Deterioration (TTCD) Using Physical Functioning (PF) as Measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), TTCD: time from randomization to first clinically meaning full deterioration (CMD) that was confirmed at next scheduled visit. EORTC-QLQ-C30 was a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical,role,emotional,social \& cognitive), 9 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea/vomiting,general pain,dyspnea,insomnia,appetite loss,constipation,diarrhea,financial difficulties) \& global health status scale. Most items were scored 1(not at all) to 4(very much) except for items contributing to global health status/QoL, which were scored 1(very poor) to 7(excellent). All raw domain scores were linearly transformed to 0-100scale with higher scores on symptoms indicate worse health state. CMD was defined if a participant's change from baseline exceeded a pre-specified threshold of -13. This was derived from an Exit Survey conducted using Patient Global Impression of Severity/Change(PGIS/PGIC) questionnaires as an anchor for estimating meaningful change. KM estimates was used., From the date of randomization until 62 months and 18 days|Time to Confirmed Deterioration (TTCD) Using Oesophago-gastric Questionnaire (OG25) on Abdominal Pain and Discomfort as Measured by EORTC QLQ-OG25, TTCD: time from randomization to first CMD that was confirmed at next scheduled visit. EORTC QLQ-OG25 evaluated gastric and GEJ cancer specific symptoms. A 25 item instrument with 6 scales: dysphagia (3 items), eating restrictions (4 ), reflux (2), odynophagia (2), pain and discomfort (2), anxiety (2), as well as 10 single items: eating in front of others, dry mouth, trouble with taste, body image, trouble swallowing saliva, choked when swallowing, trouble with coughing, trouble talking, weight and hair loss. Items were scored:1: not at all; 2: a little, 3: quite a bit, 4: very much, and were transformed linearly into scores (0 to 100) with higher scores indicating worse symptoms. CMD was defined if a participant's change from baseline exceeded a pre-specified threshold of 16.67. This was derived from an Exit Survey conducted to use PGIS/PGIC questionnaires as an anchor for estimating the meaningful change. KM estimates was used., From the date of randomization until 62 months and 18 days|Time to Confirmed Deterioration (TTCD) Using Global Health Status as Measured by EORTC QLQ-C30, TTCD: time from randomization to first CMD that was confirmed at the next scheduled visit. The EORTC-QLQ-C30 was a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive), 9 symptom scales/items (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, general pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a global health status scale. Most items were scored 1 ("not at all") to 4 ("very much") except for the items contributing to the global health status/QoL, which were scored 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). All raw domain scores were linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher scores on symptoms indicate a worse health state. CMD was defined if a participant's change from baseline exceeded a pre-specified threshold of -10. This was derived from an Exit Survey conducted to use PGIS/PGIC questionnaires as an anchor for estimating the meaningful change. KM estimates was used., From the date of randomization until 62 months and 18 days|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as was assessed by IRC per RECIST 1.1. CR was defined as complete resolution of all attributable clinical symptoms and physical findings. PR was defined as partial resolution of at Least some of the clinical symptoms and physical findings., From the date of randomization until 62 months and 18 days|Duration Of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the date of the first response (CR/PR) until the date of PD as assessed by IRC per RECIST 1.1 or date of death from any cause, whichever is earliest.CR was defined as complete resolution of all attributable clinical symptoms and physical findings. PR was defined as partial resolution of at Least some of the clinical symptoms and physical findings.PD was defined as development of new, or progression of existing metastases to the primary cancer under the sudy., From date of first response (CR/PR) until 62 months and 18 day|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An Adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study drug, and which does not have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or notconsidered related to the medicinal product. TEAE defined as an AE observed after starting administration of the study drug through 30 days after the last dose., From first dose until 62 months and 18 days|Number of Participants With Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, ECOG grades 0-5, where 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction; 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work; 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours; 3 = Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours; 4 = Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair and 5 = Dead., Baseline, cycle (C) 1 day (D) 22, D1 and D22 of C2 through C39|Change From Baseline in Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) Measured by the EORTC-QLQ-C30 Questionnaire, The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive), 9 symptom scales/items (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, general pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a global health status scale. Most items are scored 1 ("not at all") to 4 ("very much") except for the items contributing to the global health status/QoL, which are scored 1 ("very poor") to 7 ("excellent"). All raw domain scores are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher scores on symptoms indicate a worse health state., Baseline, C1D22, D1 and D22 of C2 through C25, C26D1, C27D1,C28D1 30 day follow up, 90 day follow up|Change From Baseline in HRQoL Measured by the QLQ-OG25 Questionnaire, The EORTC-QLQ-OG25 consists of a 25-item instrument that evaluates gastric and GEJ cancer-specific symptoms such as stomach discomfort, difficulties eating and swallowing and indigestion. This module consists of 6 scales: dysphagia (3 items), eating restrictions (4 items), reflux (2 items), odynophagia (2 items), pain and discomfort (2 items) and anxiety (2 items), as well as 10 single items: eating in front of others, dry mouth, trouble with taste, body image, trouble swallowing saliva, choked when swallowing, trouble with coughing, trouble talking, weight loss and hair loss. All questions have four response alternatives (1:not at all; 2:a little, 3:quite a bit, 4:very much). Questionnaire responses were transformed lineraly into scores ranging from 0 to 100 For symptom scales/items, higher scores indicate worse symptoms., Baseline, C1D22, D1 and D22 of C2 through C25, C26D1, C27D1,C28D1 30 day follow up, 90 day follow up|Change From Baseline in HRQoL Measured by Global Pain (GP), The GP instrument is a single assessment of overall pain. Participants were assessed in global pain according to the following response categories: 1= no pain (anymore), 2 = less pain, 3 = no change and 4 = more pain., Baseline, C1D22, D1 and D22 of C2 through C25, C26D1, C27D1,C28D1 30 day follow up, 90 day follow up|Change From Baseline in HRQoL Measured by the EuroQOL Five Dimensions Questionnaire 5L (EQ-5D-5L) Questionnaire, EQ-5D-5L is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcomes consisting of 6 items that cover 5 main domains (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression) and a general visual analog scale for health status.It was developed by the EuroQol Group for use as a generic, preference-based measure of health outcomes. Each dimension comprises 5 levels (no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, extreme problems). A unique EQ-5D-5L health state is defined by combining 1 level from each of the 5 dimensions. This questionnaire also records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated (0 = the worst health a participant can imagine to 100 = the best health a participant can imagine) visual analogue scale. Responses to the 5 items will also be converted to a weighted health state index (utility score) based on values derived from general population samples., Baseline, C1D22, D1 and D22 of C2 through C25, C26D1, C27D1,C28D1 30 day follow up, 90 day follow up|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Zolbetuximab in Serum: Trough Concentration (Ctrough), Ctrough was defined as the predose concentration at the end of dosing interval., Predose on C1D22, C3D1, C5D1, C7D1, C9D1|Number of Participants With Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA), Immunogenicity will be measured by the number of participants that are ADA positive., Predose on C1D1, C1D22, C3D1, C5D1, C7D1, C9D1, 30-day follow up, 90-day follow up
After the marketing approval in Japan on 26 Mar 2024, this study continued as "post marketing clinical study" in Japan. In the rest of the countries which participated in this study, this study continued as clinical study.