Single Arm Study Using the Symphony -- MRI Guided Focused Ultrasound System for the Treatment of Leiomyomas
Single arm, first-in human feasibility study using the Symphony - MRI guided focused ultrasound system for the treatment of leiomyomas. The study is expected to accrue over 12 months. This study will help determine the feasibility to ablate leiomyomas, as measured by MR thermometry and contrast enhanced imaging. In addition, the study will look at the efficacy and safety of the treatment, as measured by the reduction in fibroid size and reduction in symptom severity score and adverse events. This study will help develop future pivotal trials using the same device.
Leiomyoma|Fibroid
DEVICE: Symphony MRI guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU)
The ability to ablate fibroid tissue measured by temperature elevation, Measured by MRI thermometry, 1 year|The ability to ablate fibroid tissue indicated by Non-Perfused Volume (NPV), Measure by contrast enhanced imaging, 1 year|Safety of the system measured by collection of adverse events related to potential damage to tissue outside the treatment zone, Safety will be measured by collection of adverse events related to potential damage to tissue outside the treatment zone., 1 year|Safety of the system based on damage to skin measured by collection of adverse events related to potential damage to skin over the treatment volume, Safety will be measured by collection of adverse events related to potential damage to skin over the treatment volume., 1 year
Treatment efficacy to reduce fibroid size, Reduction of fibroid volume in milliliters, 1 year|Treatment efficacy to reduce fibroid size by NPV, Measured by non-perfused volume in milliliters, 1 year|Treatment efficacy to reduce symptom severity by Symptom Severity Scores (SSS), Change in symptoms to be quantified by Symptom Severity Scores (SSS) derived from Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Quality of Life questionnaire., 1 year
Single arm, first-in human feasibility study using the Symphony - MRI guided focused ultrasound system for the treatment of leiomyomas. The study is expected to accrue over 12 months. This study will help determine the feasibility to ablate leiomyomas, as measured by MR thermometry and contrast enhanced imaging. In addition, the study will look at the efficacy and safety of the treatment, as measured by the reduction in fibroid size and reduction in symptom severity score and adverse events. This study will help develop future pivotal trials using the same device.