Avastin/Docetaxel/Carboplatin in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The goal of this clinical research study is to evaluate the effectiveness of Avastin® in combination with docetaxel and carboplatin in the treatment of lung cancer. The safety of this combination will also be studied.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab (Avastin)|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel
Time to Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Bevacizumab has recently been demonstrated to prolong overall survival when added to carboplatin and paclitaxel for chemotherapy-naı¨ve patients with nonsquamous nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the effects of combining bevacizumab with other standards, front-line, platinum-based doublets have not been extensively explored.We designed this single treatment arm, phase 2 trial to determine whether the combination of carboplatin, docetaxel, and bevacizumab is tolerable and prolongs progression-free survival of chemotherapy-naı¨ve patients with advanced, on squamous NSCLC., Baseline up to 12 months or disease progression/death
Overall Survival (OS)- 5 Years, Secondary endpoints of the study included the assessment of overall survival, disease control rate (CR þPR þ SD, defined by RECIST16), and evaluation of the safety profile of this triple-agent regimen. All patients who received at least 1 dose of the study drug were analyzed for efficacy and toxicity endpoints., Baseline start of treatment to death, assessed up to 6 years|Disease Control Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1 .0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR)= CR+ PR., Baseline start of treatment to death, assessed up to 6 years
Avastin® is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). VEGF plays an important role in the growth of both normal and abnormal blood vessels. Avastin® is designed to prevent or slow down the growth of cancer cells by blocking the effects of VEGF.

Docetaxel and carboplatin are standard chemotherapy drugs that have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of NSCLC. Docetaxel and carboplatin are designed to work by stopping the division of cancer cells.

If you are found to be eligible, you will begin receiving Avastin®, docetaxel, and carboplatin. Avastin®, carboplatin, and docetaxel will be given by vein once every 3 weeks. The first dose of Avastin® will be given over 90 minutes. The second dose of Avastin® will be given over 60 minutes. All other doses of Avastin® will be given over 30 minutes. Carboplatin and docetaxel will always be given over 30 minutes. They will be given on the same day every 3 weeks (1 cycle). You may receive up to 6 cycles of treatment. You will receive standard premedication with dexamethasone to help decrease the risk of side effects. Dexamethasone will be taken before you receive your docetaxel infusion.

During the study, you will have blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) every 3 weeks to look at your blood counts. These samples will be used only for routine lab tests. You will be seen by a physician every 3 weeks and given a physical exam. Your blood pressure will be monitored, and you will be asked about any side effects you are experiencing. A performance status evaluation will also be done. In addition, you will have a urine test every 2 cycles of treatment.

After 2 cycles of treatment (6 weeks), you will have a chest x-ray and computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan to evaluate the status of the disease. These will be repeated every 2 cycles. Your continued participation in this study depends on how your cancer responds to the study drugs. Your doctor may decide to take you off this study if you experience significant side effects or your medical condition worsens. You may continue receiving bevacizumab for as long as your cancer responds to study treatment.

You will be followed-up on by phone or at routine clinic visits for at least 12 months to monitor your condition and disease status.

This is an investigational study. Avastin® has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of colorectal cancer. Docetaxel and carboplatin are FDA approved and commercially available. The use of these drugs together in this study is experimental. A total of 50 patients will take part in this study. All participants will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.