Phase II Trial: Low-Dose Radiation + SBRT + Sintilimab + Chemotherapy vs. Sintilimab + Chemotherapy in Locally Advanced or Metastatic Squamous Cell Lung Cancer
This is a randomized, controlled, open-label, multicenter phase II clinical trial comparing the efficacy and safety of low-dose radiation therapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy combined with PD-1 inhibitor (sintilimab) and standard platinum-based doublet chemotherapy versus PD-1 inhibitor (sintilimab) combined with standard platinum-based doublet chemotherapy as first-line treatment in patients with locally advanced or metastatic squamous cell lung cancer.

There will be 57 subjects in the experimental group and 57 subjects in the control group, with a total of 114 subjects.
Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: low-dose radiation therapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy|DRUG: chemotherapy|DRUG: Sintilimab
objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of subjects with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) in the analyzed population as judged by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1 criteria. ORR = (number of subjects with CR + PR) / total number of subjects \* 100%., Every 6 weeks (±7 days) from the first dose of study drug, and every 12 weeks (±7 days) after 48 weeks (up to 24 months).
6-month PFS rate, The 6-month PFS rate is defined as the proportion of patients who did not experience disease progression or death from any cause at the time of 6 months., From date of randomization to 6 months.|1-year PFS rate, The 1-year PFS rate is defined as the proportion of patients who did not experience disease progression or death from any cause at the time of 1 year., From date of randomization to 1 years.|overall survival(OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to the death of the subject from any cause., From date of randomization to the time when the subject died from any cause, assessed up to 36 months.|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization to first imaging disease progression or death, whichever occurs first., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.
This is a randomized, controlled, open-label, multicenter phase II clinical trial comparing the efficacy and safety of low-dose radiation therapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy combined with PD-1 inhibitor (sintilimab) and standard platinum-based doublet chemotherapy versus PD-1 inhibitor (sintilimab) combined with standard platinum-based doublet chemotherapy as first-line treatment in patients with locally advanced or metastatic squamous cell lung cancer. Patients with previously untreated, locally advanced or metastatic (unresectable or not eligible for definitive chemoradiotherapy, stage IIIB-IV) squamous cell lung cancer who have signed informed consent will be screened for eligibility. Qualified subjects who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned at a 1:1 ratio to the experimental group (radiation therapy plus sintilimab and chemotherapy) or the control group (sintilimab plus chemotherapy). Based on sample size estimation according to statistical hypotheses, there will be 57 subjects in the experimental group and 57 subjects in the control group, with a total of 114 subjects. Subjects in the experimental group will receive radiation therapy. Within 1 week after radiation therapy, they will receive treatment with sintilimab combined with standard platinum-based doublet chemotherapy. Chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy will consist of a total of 4 cycles. Patients will subsequently receive maintenance therapy with sintilimab. Subjects in the control group will receive treatment with sintilimab combined with standard platinum-based doublet chemotherapy, consisting of a total of 4 cycles. Patients will subsequently receive maintenance therapy with sintilimab. The primary efficacy endpoint of this study is objective response rate (ORR), as assessed by investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1).