Adoptive Cell Therapy Following a Non-myeloablative, Lymphodepleting Induction Regimen in Metastatic Melanoma Patients
Adoptive cell therapy (ACT) with tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in combination with lymphodepletion and high-dose interleukin 2 (IL-2) has demonstrated reproducible objective response rates of approximately 50 percent in patients with highly advanced, refractory metastatic melanoma.

Recent developments in theTIL ACT procedure facilitate the use of a reduced-intensity, non-myeloablative, lympho-depleting preparative regimen which is expected to be both less toxic and equally efficient compared to previous regimens.

Recently patients recruited post Anti PD-1 therapy had inferior responses in comparison to the pre immune checkpoint inhibitors era. Therefore 2 new arms were added:

1. TIL-ACT with combination of 2 doses of Nivolumab fixed dose 480mg, pre and post TIL.
2. TIL-ACT with FMT given using colonoscopy once and 2 maintenance doses of 12 orally ingested capsules, concurrently with a single dose of Ipilimumab 1 mg/kg up to 100 mg.
Malignant Melanoma Stage IV
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: TIL|DRUG: IL-2|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: FMT Protocol
Objective tumor responses, Radiological follow up via CT to determine the sum of Complete Responders (CR) + Partial Responders (PR) + Stable Disease (SD) as assessed by RECIST 1.1, 3 years|Assess adverse events using NCI CTCAE v4.03 during treatment and follow-up, Adverse events will be assessed using NCI CTCAE v4.03 during treatment and follow-up, 3 years
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from study entry until death from any cause, 3 years|Response Rate (RR), Radiological follow up via CT to determine the sum of Complete Responders (CR) + Partial Responders (PR) as assessed by RECIST 1.1, 3 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival according to RECIST 1.1, 3 years|Quality of Life (QoL), Assessment of QoL using the EORTC QLQ-MEL38 instrument (specific for Melanoma), 3 years
The Sponsor is developing the ex-vivo expanded autologous TIL as the Investigational Product (IP). Yet, the administration of the TIL cellular product can only be accomplished in the context of an autologous, Adoptive Cell Therapy (ACT) procedure which is composed of the following steps:

1. Reduced Intensity, non-myeloablative, lymphodepleting induction regimen using Cyclophosphamide 30mg/kg/day with Fludarabine (25 mg/m2/d) followed by 3 consecutive days of Fludarabine 25mg/m2/d.
2. Bolus high-dose (720,000 IU/kg) IL-2, which will be administered to each patient every 8 hours, to tolerance. A maximum of 10 doses will be administered per patient.
3. Early-stage follow-up until 30 days post-discharge
4. Late-stage follow-up, such as CT scans, will be carried out four and twelve weeks after TIL administration, and then every 3 months thereafter for the first year after TIL therapy; for the second year and onwards, as clinically indicated.

Recently 2 new arms were, using the same protocol described above with the following additions:

Arm 2 - TIL-ACT + Anti PD-1 -the addition of 2 doses of Nivolumab fixed dose 480mg, pre and post TIL.

Arm 3 - TIL-ACT with FMT + Anti CTLA4 - the addition of FMT given using colonoscopy once and 2 maintenance doses of 12 orally ingested capsules, concurrently with a single dose of Ipilimumab 1 mg/kg up to 100 mg.