Pamidronate Administration in Breast Cancer Patients With Bone Metastases
The study objective is to evaluate the differences, in terms of first occurrence of a skeletal event, in patients with breast cancer and symptomatic bone metastases, when pamidronate is administered during 2 years, or when it is administered during 6 months, followed by a six month rest period, and again a 6 month treatment period.
Breast Cancer|Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: Pamidronate
Pamidronate efficacy to prevent first skeletal event: time until the appearance of the first skeletal event, The main variable of evaluation is the time until the appearance of the first skeletal event. Skeletal event is defined as pathological bone fracture, or spine cord compression, or radiation bone treatment, or tumour induced hypercalcemia, 18 months
Number of skeletal events per treatment arm, The main variable of evaluation is the time until the appearance of the first skeletal event per arm., 18 months|Quality of life: Short Form (SF)-36 questionnaire, Quality of Life (QoL) was measured with Short Form (SF)-36 questionnaire, which is a 36 item, patient-reported survey of patient health. The SF-36 consists of eight scaled scores, which are the weighted sums of the questions in their section. Each scale is directly transformed into a 0-100 scale on the assumption that each question carries equal weight. The lower the score, the more disability, and the higher the score the less disability (a score of zero is equivalent to maximum disability and a score of 100 is equivalent to no disability). The eight sections are vitality, physical functioning, bodily pain, general health perceptions, physical role functioning, emotional role functioning, social role functioning and mental health. It will be completed since baseline visit and during all treatment period delivered to the patient before the start of each visit., 18 months|Overall survival (OS), OS will be determined from the date of randomization until the date of death for any reason., 18 months
Background: Pamidronate (PMT) is effective in reducing skeletal related events (SRE) in breast cancer (BC) patients with bone metastasis (BM). Its best way of administration and optimum treatment duration are still to be determined.

Objective: evaluate the efficacy of continuous administration (arm A) vs. alternate administration (arm B) of PMT to delay time to first SRE in BC pt presenting with symptomatic BM.

Methods: patients aged \>18, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status ≥ 2, adequate renal function, and BC symptomatic BM were eligible. BM was defined as presence of 3 or more hot spots (HS) in skeletal scintigraphy (SS), or any number of HS in SS if osteolytic, osteoblastic or mixed bone lesions determined by radiography, or 2 or less HS in SS if magnetic resonance or CT scan confirmation of BM. Symptomatic BM was defined as pain associated to SS HS, or SRE (pathological fractures or spine cord compression or radiation bone treatment or tumour induced hypercalcemia), or treatment with analgesia due to bone pain. Patients were allowed up to 1 previous chemotherapy and 2 previous hormone therapy lines for metastatic disease. Antineoplastic therapy could be changed at any time during the study. Eligible patients were stratified (isolated bone metastasis or associated to node or skin lesions vs. bone metastasis associated to visceral disease) and randomized to receive 2 hour-iv. PMT 90 mg every 3-4 weeks for 18 months (arm A) or iv. PMT 90 mg every 3-4 weeks for 6 months, followed by a 6 months rest, and a new 6 months on-treatment period (arm B). Quality of Life (QoL) was measured with short form (SF)-36 questionnaire.