Dabrafenib, Trametinib, and Spartalizumab for the Treatment of BRAF V600E or V600K Mutation Positive Stage IIIB/C/D Melanoma
This phase II trial studies how well dabrafenib, trametinib, and spartalizumab works in treating patients with BRAF V600E or V600K mutation positive stage IIIB/C/D melanoma, who do not achieve a pathologic complete response after 8 weeks of dabrafenib and trametinib treatment. Patients who achieve a pathologic complete response after 8 weeks of neoadjuvant dabrafenib and trametinib will receive adjuvant dabrafenib and trametinib. Dabrafenib and trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as spartalizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving dabrafenib, trametinib, and spartalizumab may help to control melanoma.
Pathologic Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIID Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8
DRUG: Dabrafenib|BIOLOGICAL: Spartalizumab|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|DRUG: Trametinib
Survival Rate in Stage IIIb/C/D Subjects, To determine the 12-month relapse free survival (RFS) rate in stage IIIB/C/D melanoma patients who, after 8 weeks of neoadjuvant dabrafenib and trametinib, do not achieve a pCR and receive adjuvant dabrafenib, trametinib an spartalizumab., Baseline up to 2 years
Safety of Neoadjuvant Treatments, To evaluate the sarety of neoadjuvant dabrafenib and trametini and adjuvant dabrafenib, trametinib ann spartalizumab, Baseline up to 2 years|Distant Metastasis-free Survival (DMFS) and Overall Survival (OS), To assess the recurrence patterns, distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), and overall survival (OS) in all patients treated on protocol., Baseline upto 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the 12-month relapse free survival (RFS) rate in stage IIIB/C/D melanoma patients who, after 8 weeks of neoadjuvant dabrafenib and trametinib, do not achieve a pathologic complete response (pCR) and receive adjuvant dabrafenib, trametinib and spartalizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of neoadjuvant dabrafenib and trametinib and adjuvant dabrafenib, trametinib and spartalizumab.

II. To determine the 12-month relapse free survival (RFS) rate in stage IIIB/C/D.

III. Melanoma patients who, after 8 weeks of neoadjuvant dabrafenib and trametinib, achieve a pCR and receive adjuvant dabrafenib and trametinib.

IV. To assess the recurrence patterns, distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), and overall survival (OS) in all patients treated on protocol.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess immunological and molecular features of treatment response and resistance.

II. To assess circulating markers and correlate them with treatment response and relapse and toxicity III. To assess the impact of neoadjuvant therapy on surgical resectability.

OUTLINE:

NEOADJUVANT TREATMENT: Patients receive dabrafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and trametinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

SURGERY: Patients undergo surgical resection of melanoma.

ADJUVANT TREATMENT OF pCR PATIENTS: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeats every 28 days for 44 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ADJUVANT TREATMENT OF NON pCR PATIENTS: Patients receive spartalizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeats every 28 days for 44 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-4 months for 2 years.