EUS-B-FNA in the Diagnosis of Malignant Parenchymal Lung Lesions
The aim of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy, safety and tolerability, predictors of success of EUS-B-FNA in the diagnosis of malignant parenchymal lung lesions.

The Investigators will also evaluated the adequacy of samples obtained for molecular analysis in patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: EUS-B-FNA
Sensitivity and specificity of EUS-B-FNA in the detection of malignant pulmonary lesions, Diagnostic accuracy (i.e., sensitivity and specificity) of EUS-B-FNA in the diagnosis of malignant pulmonary parenchymal lesions, discriminating those with a malignant disease in comparison with those without the malignant disease. A specific unit of measure is not included, being the computation of the present outcome based on the absolute number of malignant/non malignant cases to the total number of diagnosed individuals., At study completion (expected February 2021)
Absolute and relative frequency of adequate samples for molecular analysis in NSCLC following assessment by pathologist/molecular biologist, Proportional number (percentage) of samples obtained with EUS-B-FNA containing sufficient material (i.e. malignant cells) for molecular analysis in NSCLC following assessment by a pathologist/molecular biologist. A specific unit of measure is not included, being the computation of the present outcome based on the absolute number of malignant cells in the single sample., At study completion (expected February 2021)|Detection of predictors of successful aspirate based on the implementation of regression models, Implementation of regression models (logistic regression analysis) to detect variables related to a successful aspirate: anatomical (i.e. lung, lobe of the lesion), endoscopic (type of endoscope, type of needle, number of needle passes, needle aspiration technique), pathological (presence/absence of rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE), health personnel performing ROSE (i.e pathologist, respiratory physician, cytotechnician), pathological technique used for diagnosis and molecular analysis (smear, cell-block, liquid based cytology). A specific unit of measure is not included, being the computation of the present variables based on the measurement of absolute numbers not recorded with a specific unit of measure. The unit of measure is basically identified by the single element of the variable., At study completion (expected February 2021)|Safety (number of adverse events) of EUS-B-FNA through CTCAE v4.0, Incidence rate and qualitative and quantitative description of adverse events in patients undergoing EUS-B-FNA. A specific unit of measure is not included, being the computation of the present outcome based on the absolute number of the adverse events detected by the attending physician., Until 24 hours after the procedure
Lung cancer is by far the leading cause of cancer death among both men and women worldwide. Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) represents about 80-90% of all lung cancers. Endoscopic ultrasound with bronchoscope fine needle aspiration (EUS-B-FNA) is a safe and accurate technique that has been mostly described for the diagnosis and the mediastinal nodal staging of NSCLC, as a complementary technique to endobronchial ultrasound trans-bronchial needle aspiration (EBUS-TBNA) or when EBUS-TBNA may be difficult and/or contraindicated for clinical reasons (e.g. excessive cough, respiratory failure etc).

Few retrospective studies evaluated the sensitivity and the safety of this technique in the diagnosis of parenchymal pulmonary lesions suspected for lung cancer, in contact or adjacent to the esophagus. Few data are available on the adequacy of the samples obtained by EUS-B-FNA for molecular analysis in NSCLC. The main predictors of success are still unclear.

The primary aim of this prospective study is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-B-FNA in the diagnosis of malignant parenchymal lung lesions. The Investigators will also evaluate the safety and tolerability of the technique, the main predictors of success and the adequacy of samples obtained for molecular analysis in patients with NSCLC