Phase I/II Trial of VELCADE Plus Zevalin in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Follicular Lymphoma
Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies, such as yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan, can find cancer cells and carry cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Giving bortezomib together with rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan may kill more cancer cells.

This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of bortezomib when given together with rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan and to see how well they work in treating patients with relapsed or refractory follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
DRUG: rituximab|DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: Ibritumomab tiuxetan
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and Tolerability of Bortezomib Combined With Y-90-Ibritumomab Tiuxetan Determined by Number of Dose Limiting Toxicities in a Cohort., To determine the MTD using a 3+3 dose escalating design. There will be 3 dose cohorts:1.0mg/m2,1.3mg/m2 and1.6 mg/m2. 3 patients will be enrolled at dose of 1.0mg/m2 bortezomib. If no dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) are seen in the first 3 patients then dose will be escalated to next level and 3 patients will be treated at that dose level. If a DLT is seen at any dose, then 3 more patients will be enrolled at that dose level. If 1 patient out of 6, experience a DLT then MTD will be determined to be at this dose level. If 2 or more DLTs are seen in first 3 patients at that dose, then MTD will be one dose lower to the level where the DLTs were experienced.

DLTs were defined using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria Version 3.0.

DLTs=grade 3 nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or ileus more than 96h; grade 4 nausea, vomiting, diarrhea or ileus,neuropathic pain, peripheral sensory neuropathy, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia., During induction therapy, the first 28 days of treatment.
Number of Patients With Adverse Events Related to Treatment of Bortezomib Combined With Y-90-ibritumomab Tiuxetan, To further explore the toxicity bortezomib combined with Y-90-ibritumomab tiuxetan by collecting data on adverse events (AE) reported by patient or collected lab results that are grade 3 or grade 4 that were determined to be at least possible related to any of the studies drugs.

Toxicity will be collected on treatment days according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria for adverse events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0). In general adverse events (AEs) will be graded according to the following:

Grade 1 Mild AE Grade 2 Moderate AE Grade 3 Severe AE Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE Grade 5 Death related to AE, At start of treatment on days 1, 8, 15, 22 of induction, days 36 and 50 of recovery, days 1, 8, 15 of consolidation cycles for up to 3 cycles and 4 weeks after the completion of treatment.
This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of bortezomib followed by a phase II study.

Phase I:

- Induction therapy: Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, rituximab IV on days 8 and 15, and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day 15.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of bortezomib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

- Consolidation therapy: Beginning 6-7 weeks after completing induction therapy, patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Phase II: Patients receive induction therapy and consolidation therapy as in phase I, with bortezomib administered at the MTD determined in phase I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.