ABC-04 a Study of Cisplatin, Gemcitabine and Selumetinib in Patients With Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer
The objective of this study is to establish the recommended dose of selumetinib, a novel MEK inhibitor for use in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin.
Biliary Tract Neoplasms|Cholangiocarcinoma|Gallbladder Neoplasms
DRUG: selumetinib|DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: cisplatin
To investigate the safety and tolerability of the combination of cisplatin, gemcitabine and selumetinib, and to establish the recommended phase II dose of selumetinib when given in this combination., To investigate the safety and tolerability of the combination of cisplatin, gemcitabine (CisGem) and selumetinib and to establish the recommended phase II dose of selumetinib when given in this combination.

The recommended dose of selumetinib to use in combination with CisGem in future studies will be the dose at which less than 33% of patients experience a DLT. The recommended dose will not be higher than 75mg/m\*2, from baseline to 28 days post last patient last treatment
Response rate, To make a preliminary assessment of efficacy in terms of tumour control., From baseline to end of treatment
This trial aims to evaluate the safety and tolerability of selumetinib in combination with CisGem and to establish the recommended dose to take into phase II studies. Pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic endpoints will be assessed and preliminary efficacy data will also be collected.

Patients with Advanced Biliary tract Cancer will receive CisGem regimen and selumetinib. A dose de-escalation scheme will be employed to determine the recommended phase II dose of selumetinib.

Patients will be recruited in cohorts of three and assessed for dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first cycle of treatment. Depending on the number of DLTs observed, the cohort may be expanded, the next cohort may be enrolled at a lower dose or the dose may be declared the recommended dose. Patients will receive up to eight cycles of CisGem and may continue to receive selumetinib until progression of disease.