Steady State Blood Volume Maps Using Ferumoxytol Non-stoichiometric Magnetite MRI in Imaging Patients With Glioblastoma
This clinical trial studies steady state blood volume maps using ferumoxytol non-stoichiometric magnetite magnetic resonance (MRI) in imaging patients with glioblastoma. MRI is a procedure in which radio waves and a powerful magnet linked to a computer are used to create detailed pictures of areas inside the body. Contrast agents, such as ferumoxytol non-stoichiometric magnetite, may enhance these pictures and increase visibility of tumor cells and the blood vessels in and around the tumors.
Glioblastoma
PROCEDURE: Dynamic Susceptibility Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Ferumoxytol|DRUG: Gadoteridol|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Assessment of overlay accuracy with 3-dimensional (3D) anatomical T1w post contrast scans (MPRAGE), Will be analyzed and the mean score between the two readers will be used in the primary analyses. That is, to compare steady state-cerebral blood volume (SS-CBV) maps and dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-CBV maps, a linear mixed effects model will be used to compare the mean of the visualization variables between SS and DSC overall and at each of time points (before chemoradiation, after chemoradiation, at progression and after second line treatment) while taking into account the correlation due to repeated measures, and the clustering within institutions. Model assumptions will be evaluated and alternative models will be explored as necessary., Up to 6 weeks after last visit|Confidence in identifying the lesion corresponding areas on cerebral blood volume (CBV) maps, Will be analyzed and the mean score between the two readers will be used in the primary analyses. That is, to compare steady state (SS)-CBV maps and dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-CBV maps, a linear mixed effects model will be used to compare the mean of the visualization variables between SS and DSC overall and at each of time points (before chemoradiation, after chemoradiation, at progression and after second line treatment) while taking into account the correlation due to repeated measures, and the clustering within institutions. Model assumptions will be evaluated and alternative models will be explored as necessary., Up to 6 week after last visit|Assessment of cerebral blood volume (CBV) in small (< 1 cm) enhancing lesions, Will be analyzed and the mean score between the two readers will be used in the primary analyses. That is, to compare steady state (SS)-CBV maps and dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-CBV maps, a linear mixed effects model will be used to compare the mean of the visualization variables between SS and DSC overall and at each of time points (before chemoradiation, after chemoradiation, at progression and after second line treatment) while taking into account the correlation due to repeated measures, and the clustering within institutions. Model assumptions will be evaluated and alternative models will be explored as necessary., Up to 6 weeks after the last visit|Delineation of tumor from larger blood vessels, Will be analyzed and the mean score between the two readers will be used in the primary analyses. That is, to compare steady state-cerebral blood volume (SS-CBV) maps and dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-CBV maps, a linear mixed effects model will be used to compare the mean of the visualization variables between SS and DSC overall and at each of time points (before chemoradiation, after chemoradiation, at progression and after second line treatment) while taking into account the correlation due to repeated measures, and the clustering within institutions. Model assumptions will be evaluated and alternative models will be explored as necessary., Up to 6 weeks after last visit
Overall survival, For the assessment of therapeutic response and association with survival, the cerebral blood volume (CBV) values will be correlated with survival using a Cox mixed effects regression model while adjusting patient demographical and clinical characteristics and the clustering within institutions. To determine at which stage of the disease the steady state CBV will best predict survival as well as the best cut off points, separate models will be fit for different disease stages and different cutoff points including 1.75, others and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria., Up to 6 weeks after last visit|Relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) values, A linear model will be used to assess correlation of rCBV with histology based on the availability of data., Up to 6 weeks after last visit|Ferumoxytol enhancement, A linear mixed effects regression model will first be used to examine the relationship between transverse relaxation rate and ferumoxytol doses while taking the correlation due to repeated measures into account. If the relationship between transverse relaxation rate and ferumoxytol doses does not show good linearity, alternative function forms will be tested, for example, polynomial or exponential., 24 hours after ferumoxytol administration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Testing if steady state (SS)-cerebral blood volume (CBV) maps are superior to dynamic susceptibility contrast-(DSC)-CBV maps in visualizing of brain tumor blood volumes.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Development of the SS-CBV mapping for quantitative CBV estimation. II. Assessment of therapeutic response. III. Association with survival. IV. Correlation of relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) with histology. V. Assessment of late ferumoxytol (ferumoxytol non-stoichiometric magnetite) enhancement at various stages of disease.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 2 doses (2nd dose optional) of gadoteridol intravenously (IV) and undergo MRI including DSC or dynamic contrast enhanced imaging (DCE)-CBV mapping over approximately 45-60 minutes on day 1. Within 3 days, patients receive 3 doses of ferumoxytol non-stoichiometric magnetite IV and undergo MRI including DSC and SS-CBV mapping after each dose over approximately 90 minutes. Patients undergo MRI without contrast 24 hours after ferumoxytol non-stoichiometric magnetite over approximately 30 minutes. This 2-3 day series of imaging repeats at different stages of disease and may be performed up to 5 times: prior to surgery, prior to chemoradiation therapy, 4-6 weeks post-chemoradiation therapy, at time of progression on gadolinium MRI per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria, and again at time of progression (if the previous time of progression showed pseudoprogression).

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 2 and 6 weeks.