Ibrutinib With Rituximab in Adults With Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ibrutinib in combination with rituximab in participants with Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM).
Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Rituximab
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Based on Independent Review Committee (IRC) Assessment - Kaplan Meier Landmark Estimates at Month 54, PFS was defined as the time from date randomization to date of first IRC-confirmed disease progression (PD) assessed according to the modified VIth International Workshop on Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia (IWWM) criteria (National Comprehensive Cancer Network \[NCCN\] 2014) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, regardless of the use of subsequent antineoplastic therapy prior to documented PD or death.

As the median PFS was not reached in the Ibrutinib + Rituximab arm at the time of the analysis, Kaplan Meier landmark estimate of the PFS rate at 54 months (that is, the estimated percentage of participants with PFS at Month 54) is presented., Month 54 (median time on study: 49.7 months [Ibr+R and Pbo+R] and 57.9 months [Open-Label Ibr])
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Based on IRC Assessment Up to 3 Years After Last Participant Randomized, ORR, defined as the percentage of participants achieving a best overall response of protocol-specified complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR) per the IRC assessment at or prior to initiation of subsequent antineoplastic therapy and confirmed by 2 consecutive assessments. IRC assessment of response was conducted according to the modified VIth IWWM (NCCN 2014) criteria and incorporated assessments from the central radiology review. CR required complete resolution of lymphadenopathy/splenomegaly if present at baseline. VGPR and PR required reduction in lymphadenopathy/splenomegaly if present at baseline.. Kaplan-Meier estimate., Median time on study: 49.7 months (Ibr+R and Pbo+R) and 57.9 months (Open-Label Ibr)|Time to Next Treatment (TnT) Time From the Date of Randomization to the Start Date of Any Subsequent WM Treatment., TTnT was measured from the date of randomization to the start date of any subsequent WM treatment. Participants without subsequent treatment were censored at the date of the last study visit.

As the median TTnT was not reached in the Ibrutinib + Rituximab arm and the Open-Label Substudy arm at the time of the analysis, Kaplan Meier landmark estimate of the TTnT rate at 54 months (that is, the estimated percentage of participants not receiving subsequent WM treatment at Month 54) are presented., Month 54 (median time on study: 49.7 months [Ibr+R and Pbo+R] and 57.9 months [Open-Label Ibr])|Percentage of Participants With Sustained Hemoglobin (Hgb) Improvement Up to 3 Years After Last Participant Randomized, Percentage of participants achieving a sustained improvement in Hgb at or prior to initiation of subsequent antineoplastic therapy. Hgb improvement is defined as an increase of ≥ 2 g/dL over baseline regardless of baseline value, or an increase to \>11 g/dL with a ≥0.5 g/dL improvement if baseline is ≤ 11 g/dL. Sustained Hgb improvement is defined as improvement that is sustained continuously for ≥ 56 days (8 weeks) without blood transfusion or growth factors, which includes hemoglobin \> 110 g/L with at least a 5 g/L improvement if baseline ≤110 g/L or increase ≥20 g/L over baseline., Median time on study: 49.7 months (Ibr+R and Pbo+R) and 57.9 months (Open-Label Ibr)|Percentage of Participants With ≥ 3 Points Increase From Baseline by Week 25 in the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue) Subscale Score, Percentage of participants with ≥ 3 points increase from baseline by Week 25 in the FACIT-Fatigue subscale score.The FACIT-Fatigue is a 13-item questionnaire that assesses participant reported fatigue and its impact upon daily activities and function over the past 7 days. Each of the 13 items of the FACIT-Fatigue Scale ranges from 0-4, with a range of possible total scores from 0 (extreme fatigue) to 52 (no fatigue). Scores below 30 indicate severe fatigue., Baseline, 25 weeks|Overall Survival (OS) - Kaplan Meier Landmark Estimates at Month 54, OS, defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. All deaths observed as the time of the analysis were considered as events. For participants who were not known to have died at the time of the analysis, OS data were censored at the date last known alive.

As the median OS was not reached in any treatment arm at the time of the analysis, Kaplan Meier point estimates of the OS rate (that is, the estimated percentage of participants still surviving at Month 54) are presented., Month 54 (median time on study: 49.7 months [Ibr+R and Pbo+R] and 57.9 months [Open-Label Ibr])
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of ibrutinib in combination with rituximab in participants with Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (WM).