A Study to Evaluate Efficacy and Safety of TheraSphere and Resection Combination Therapy in Patients With Single Large ((> 5cm, Long Diameter ) Hepatocellular Carcinoma : Exploratory Trial
A study to evaluate efficacy and safety of TheraSphere and resection combination therapy in patients with single large ((\> 5cm, long diameter ) hepatocellular carcinoma :
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
DEVICE: Theraspere
Recurrence free survival (RFS) after resection, 96 Weeks
Overall survival (OS) after resection, 96 Weeks|Time to recurrence (TTR) of tumor after resection :, 96 Weeks|Safety profiles, Frequency of Adverse events, 96 Weeks|Rate of post operative hepatic decompensation, Hepatic decompensation was defined as incidence of both jaundice (serum bilirubin ≥ 5 mg/dL) and coagulopathy (prothrombin time \< 40%) with or without the presence of ascites and/or encephalopathy as determined at physical examination \[Hepatol Int 2009;3(1):269-282\]., 96 Weeks
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common cancer and the third leading cause of cancer related death worldwide. Because HCC usually occurs in patients with underlying liver disease, candidates for treatment strategies should be selected based on tumor status and liver function. According to the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staging system, which is widely used for treatment allocation , hepatic resection is considered the treatment of choice for single tumors without macrovascular invasion or extrahepatic spread. These patients are beyond the Milan criteria; liver transplantation is not recommended as the first treatment choice because of the risk of recurrence and the scarcity of donors. Ablative therapies, such as percutaneous ethanol injection and radiofrequency ablation (RFA), rarely achieve complete necrosis in tumors \> 3 cm.

Consequently, hepatic resection is considered the only po tentially curative treatment for these patients. Nevertheless, few patients are candidates for hepatic resection because of associated liver cirrhosis and the risk of inducing postoperative liver decompensation. Although perioperative mortality of hepatic resection in cirrhotic patients has decreased, candidates must be selected carefully to avoid life threatening complications. The lon g term outcome of hepatic resection remains poor, mainly because tumors often recur after resection. Moreove r, s ingle large ( 5cm) tumor showed significantly worse survival than other BCLC stage A, which indicate that single tumor should be differently staged according to their tumor size . For these reasons, whether hepatic resection is the optimal treatment for large single HCCs is a matter of debate.

Yttrium 9 0 radioembolization (Y90) allow s accurate tumor targeting while spa ring surrounding parenchyma, resulting in down staging potential and bridging to transplantation strategies The responsiveness of HCC to radiation, while long recognized, has been limited by nontargeted tissue exposure and radiation injury. With the devel opment of advanced microcatheters and short radius of emission of Y90, single lesions confined to particular liver segment s may now be approached with s uperselective radiotherapy, permitting ablative doses to a confined liver volume. The purpose of this study i s to assess the efficacy and safety of neo adjuvant Therapsphere to down stage in single large ( (\> 5cm , long diameter HCC treated with resection.