An Alternative Radiation Fractionation Strategy for Locally Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This phase I trial studies the best dose of radiation therapy in treating patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. Specialized radiation therapy, such as stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT), that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. SBRT has been shown to provide excellent results when used in early stage lung cancer, but has not yet been applied to patients with more advanced disease.
Stage IIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: stereotactic body radiation therapy|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) defined to be the dose level that results in a probability equal to 0.33 that a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be manifest using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 (v.4), Up to 1 year|Acute toxicities associated with this regimen using CTCAE v.4, Crude rates of grade 3 and greater acute toxicities will be reported., Up to 90 days|Late toxicities associated with this regimen using CTCAE v.4, Crude rates of grade 3 and greater late toxicities will be reported., After 90 days
Local control, Will be calculated for the entire cohort using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Up to 5 years|Distant metastasis, Will be calculated for the entire cohort using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Up to 5 years|Patterns of failure, Will be assessed with standard follow-up imaging, and the percentages of in-field failures versus regional nodal failures calculated., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be calculated for the entire cohort using Kaplan-Meier methodology., At 1 year|Overall survival, Will be calculated for the entire cohort using Kaplan-Meier methodology., At 2 years|Overall survival, Will be calculated for the entire cohort using Kaplan-Meier methodology., At 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

To test the safety and tolerability of an alternative fractionation regimen in locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), consisting of 44 Gy with concurrent chemotherapy followed by a stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) boost to remaining parenchymal and nodal disease. The maximum tolerated dose of the SBRT boost will be determined.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To assess local control.
2. To assess distant metastasis and patterns of failure.
3. To assess overall survival at 1 and 2 years.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of radiation therapy and SBRT.

Patients undergo radiation therapy daily and receive carboplatin and paclitaxel weekly for 4.5 weeks. Patients then undergo 2 boost SBRT treatments 2-3 days apart.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.