Phase II Open-Label Trial of Tarceva in Women With Metastatic, Hormone- and HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
The goal of this trial is to determine the activity of erlotinib in a rationally selected population of women with ER-negative, PR-negative, HER2/neu-negative, EGFR-positive breast cancer. If erlotinib is shown to have activity, this could identify a form of targeted therapy for this specific subset of breast cancer patients. In addition, it may identify a subset of breast cancer patients with tumors that overexpress EGFR in whom other EGFR targeted therapies could warrant further testing.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib
The Primary Objective of the Study is Progression Free Survival., From the Day of Initial Treatment (Day 0) Until Documented Disease Progression or Death., From the Day of Initial Treatment (Day 0) Until Documented Disease Progression or Death, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.
Overall Response Rate, Consisting of Complete and Partial Responses According to RECIST Criteria, Overall response rate, consisting of complete and partial responses according to RECIST criteria "Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by imaging: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR.", every 8 weeks, up to 6 months|Clinical Benefit, Consisting of Complete and Partial Responses, and Stable Disease for Six Months, We measured the clinical benefit, consisting of complete and partial responses, and stable disease for six months, very 8 weeks, up to 6 months|Duration of Objective Response, Objective response is defined as complete or partial response, every 8 weeks, up to 6 months|Safety of Erlotinib, Number of Participants With Adverse Events, 2 years|Number of Participants With Rash, We evaluated the number of Participants with Rash, every 8 weeks, up to 6 months
This is a Phase II, open-label, single institution trial of treatment with single agent erlotinib. The purpose of the research is to determine the effects erlotinib has on the breast cancer tumors in women with metastatic hormone receptor negative and HER2-negative breast cancer. The Federal Drug Administration (FDA) has approved erlotinib, also known as Tarceva, for the treatment of locally advanced and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer.

To qualify for the trial, subjects must have histologically confirmed, incurable, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer that is ER-negative, PR-negative, Her2/neu-negative and EGFR-positive. Subjects must have measurable disease. They must have received less than or equal to 1 chemotherapeutic agent in the metastatic setting. The target accrual is 43 subjects. Initially, 18 subjects will be accrued. If at least 3 subjects are progression-free at 4 months, accrual will continue to a maximum of 43 subjects. Subject eligibility will be evaluated during a screening period of 4 weeks. During the treatment period, subjects will receive single agent erlotinib, 150mg/day. Subjects will receive the first dose of erlotinib on Day 0, within 7 days of registration. Efficacy will be assessed by radiographic tumor assessment or photographic documentation. Safety will be assessed by the recording of adverse events and laboratory test results. Subjects with documented progressive disease will be discontinued from treatment and will be followed for survival information every 2 months until death, lost to follow-up or study termination.