Palliative Expeditiously Adaptive Quad Shot Radiation Therapy (PEAQ-RT)
The investigators propose evaluating the feasibility of using the novel cone beam computed tomography (CBCT)-guided Ethos system to deliver expedited, adaptive Quad shot radiation for the purpose of palliative radiation of patients with advanced head and neck cancers or patients with a history of any malignancy experiencing current head and neck lesions. Quad shot radiation was selected as the palliative regimen of choice given its low toxicity profile, well published efficacy in palliation, frequent usage in the US for palliation of head and neck cancers, and safety in the setting of re-irradiation. The use of the Ethos platform to perform online adaptive radiation planning and delivery remains novel and untested. The Ethos system would be used to consolidate CT simulation, replanning, and treatment for Quad shot patients receiving treatment with the benefit of reduced patient travel and a reduction in the unwanted delay between Quad shot cycles. The goal of this pilot study will be to evaluate the feasibility of the Ethos system to eliminate the need for a CT simulation for cycles 2 and 3 of Quad shot radiation.
Head and Neck Cancer
DEVICE: Ring gantry kV-CBCT combined with linear accelerator (Halcyon)|RADIATION: Quad shot radiation
Feasibility as measured by the successful completion of Quad shot radiation using CBCT instead of routine CT simulation in 80% of attempted simulated patients, Completion of treatment by all patients enrolled (estimated to be 3 years and 12 weeks)
Average time (days) required from initial consult to completion of radiation therapy for patient travel and visits to the department, Approximately 12 weeks|Percentage of patients from whom repeat CT simulation was eliminated, Completion of treatment by all patients enrolled (estimated to be 3 years and 12 weeks)
The investigators propose evaluating the feasibility of using the novel cone beam computed tomography (CBCT)-guided Ethos system to deliver expedited, adaptive Quad shot radiation for the purpose of palliative radiation of patients with advanced head and neck cancers or patients with a history of any malignancy experiencing current head and neck lesions. Quad shot radiation was selected as the palliative regimen of choice given its low toxicity profile, well published efficacy in palliation, frequent usage in the US for palliation of head and neck cancers, and safety in the setting of re-irradiation. The use of the Ethos platform to perform online adaptive radiation planning and delivery remains novel and untested. The Ethos system would be used to consolidate CT simulation, replanning, and treatment for Quad shot patients receiving treatment with the benefit of reduced patient travel and a reduction in the unwanted delay between Quad shot cycles. The goal of this pilot study will be to evaluate the feasibility of the Ethos system to eliminate the need for a CT simulation for cycles 2 and 3 of Quad shot radiation.