Low-Dose Radiotherapy in Treating Painful Bone Metastases in Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well low-dose radiotherapy works in treating bone pain in patients with multiple myeloma that has spread to the bone. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, protons, or other sources to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Low-dose radiotherapy may be more convenient for patients and their families, may not interfere as much with the timing of chemotherapy, and may have less chance for short term or long-term side effects from the radiation.
Bone Pain|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone|Plasma Cell Myeloma
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Pain response, Pain will be measured using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)., Up to 6 months after completion of radiation therapy
Quality of life (QOL) as measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Metastases Module (EORTC QLQ-BM22), Quality of life will be assessed before and after radiation therapy.

EORTC QLQ-BM22 measures four multi-item scales: painful sites, functional interference, painful characteristics, and psychosocial aspects. Each item will be scaled as: 1= not at all; 2 = a little; 3 = quite a bit; 4 =very much. Answers will be converted into grading scale, with values between 0 and 100. Higher scores represent worse QOL for the subscales of painful sites, painful characteristics and psychosocial aspects, while higher scores in functional scale represents better functioning., Up to 6 months after completion of radiation therapy|Quality of life (QOL) as measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), The QLQ-C30 is a 30-item subject self-report questionnaire composed of both multi-item scales and single-item measures including functional scales, symptom scales, a global health status / QoL scale, and single item measures. Participants rate items on a four-point scale, with 1 as "not at all" and 4 as "very much." The method for scoring these scales is: 1. Estimate the average of the items that contribute to the scale; this is the raw score. 2. Use a linear transformation to standardize the raw score, so that scores range from 0 to 100; a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., Up to 6 months after completion of radiation therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether treatment with 2 Gy x 2 to a painful myeloma bone lesion achieves patient-reported pain reduction comparable to current standard of care at 4 weeks.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess quality of life (QOL) in patients treated with 2 Gy x 2 to painful myeloma bone lesions.

II. To quantify analgesia use/reduction following 2 Gy x 2 to a painful myeloma bone lesion. All opioid analgesia use will be converted into morphine equivalent in order to compare across the entire population.

III. To measure time to pain relief and duration of pain relief with 2 Gy x 2.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To record cytogenetics and International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria at diagnosis and prior to and following radiotherapy (RT).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive low-dose radiation therapy at consecutive business days 1 and 2 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with no pain relief may receive additional radiotherapy at 4 weeks following initial radiotherapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2, 4, and 8 weeks and also at 6 months.