Effect of Endurance and Endurance-Strength Training on Inflammatory Markers in Women With Abdominal Obesity
The aim of this study was to compare the effects of three months' endurance training and three months' endurance-strength training on inflammatory markers in women with abdominal obesity.
Obesity
BEHAVIORAL: Endurance training|BEHAVIORAL: Endurance-strength training
C-reactive protein (CRP) at baseline, Serum concentration of C-reactive protein at baseline, At baseline|CRP after three months of physical training, Serum concentration of C-reactive protein after three months of physical training, after three months of physical training
tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) at baseline, Serum concentration of tumor necrosis factor alpha at baseline, at baseline|TNFα after three months of physical training, Serum concentration of tumor necrosis factor alpha after three months of physical training, after three months of physical training|soluble receptor 2 of TNF alpha (sTNF R2) at baseline, Serum concentration of soluble receptor 2 of TNF alpha at baseline, At baseline|sTNF R2 after three months of physical training, Serum concentration of soluble receptor 2 of TNF alpha after three months of physical training, after three months of physical training|interleukin 6 (IL-6) at baseline, Serum concentration of interleukin 6 at baseline, At baseline|IL-6 after three months of physical training, Serum concentration of interleukin 6 after three months of physical training, after three months of physical training|interleukin 1 (IL-1) at baseline, Serum concentration of interleukin 1 at baseline, At baseline|IL-1 after three months of physical training, Serum concentration of interleukin 1 after three months of physical training, after three months of physical training|visfatin at baseline, Serum concentration of visfatin at baseline, At baseline|visfatin after three months of physical training, Serum concentration of visfatin after three months of physical training, after three months of physical training|Body mass at baseline, Body mass at baseline, At baseline|Body mass after three months of physical training, Body mass after three months of physical training, after three months of physical training|Body height at baseline, Body height at baseline, At baseline|Body height after three months of physical training, Body height after three months of physical training, after three months of physical training
Study patients. Written informed consent was obtained from all subjects. The study meets the standards of the Declaration of Helsinki in its revised version of 1975 and its amendments of 1983, 1989, and 1996.

Study design. The study was designed as a prospective randomized trial. Subjects were randomly divided into two groups, A and B, using a randomization list. Both groups performed three month of physical training. Group A underwent endurance training, while group B performed endurance-strength training. Aside from the training, all subjects were instructed to maintain the physical activity and diet that they had been practicing so far. At baseline and after three months of physical training, blood samples for laboratory analyses were taken, anthropometric measurements were performed for both groups.

Intervention. The exercise program lasted three months, with three sessions per week. Women in both groups participated in a total of 36 training sessions. The women in group A underwent endurance exercise on cycle ergometers (Schwinn Evolution, Schwinn Bicycle Company, Boulder, Colorado, USA). Exercise sessions consisted of a five-minute warm-up (stretching exercise) at low intensity (50%-60% of maximum heart rate), a 45-minute exercise (at 50%-80% of maximum heart rate), five minutes of cycling without a load, and five minutes of closing stretching and breathing exercise of low intensity. Group B performed endurance-strength exercise consisting of a five-minute warm-up (stretching exercises) of low intensity (50%-60% of maximum heart rate), a strength component, an endurance component, 5 minutes cycling without a load, and a 5 minutes closing stretching and breathing exercise of low intensity. The 20-minute-long strength component was performed using a neck barbell and a gymnastic ball. Directly after the strength exercise, the women took part in a 25-minute endurance exercise on cycle ergometers (Schwinn Evolution, Schwinn Bicycle Company, Boulder, Colorado, USA) at 50%-80% of maximum heart rate. Both the endurance and endurance-strength training were comparable in exercise volume; the only difference was the nature of the effort.