Real-world Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Liposome Irinotecan
This study is a prospective, multicenter, real-world study. There are four cohorts. Cohorts 1-3 include second-line, posterior-line, and neoadjuvant colorectal cancer patients, respectively. Cohort 4 include patients with the exception of those with pancreatic and colorectal cancer. As this study is a real-world investigation, treatment procedures, visit schedules, and examinations will be based on the routine clinical practice of physicians. Through the above cohort, the efficacy and safety of irinotecan liposome are comprehensively observed.
Colorectal Cancer|Solid Tumor
DRUG: Irinotecan Liposome
Incidence of grade ≥3 adverse events assessed by CTCAE 5.0 (Cohort 1), To investigate the safety with Nal-IRI and IRI., Assessed except to 10 months.|Objective response rate (Cohort 2 and 4), To investigate antitumor efficacy of Nal-IRI, proportion of patients with complete (CR) or partial response (PR) assessed by RECIST v1.1., From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication. Assessed up to 6 months.|R0 resection rate (Cohort 3), To assess surgical conversion rates in patients who could be surgically resected., From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication. Assessed up to 6 months.
Objective response rate (Cohort 1), To investigate antitumor efficacy of Nal-IRI, proportion of patients with complete (CR) or partial response (PR) assessed by RECIST v1.1., From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication. Assessed up to 6 months.|Disease control rate (Cohort 1,2,4), To investigate antitumor efficacy of Nal-IRI, proportion of patients with complete , partial or stable response (SD) assessed by RECIST v1.1., From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication.Assessed up to 6 months.|Progression free survival (Cohort 1,2,4), To investigate antitumor efficacy of study. From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication, whichever came first., From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first. Assessed up to 24 months.|Overall survival (Cohort 1,2,4), To investigate antitumor efficacy of Nal-IRI. From initial medication to the date of death from any cause., From initial medication to the date of death from any cause. Assessed up to 42 months.|Incidence of adverse events and severity of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE 5.0 (Cohort 1,2,3,4), To assess the incidence and severity of adverse events in combination regimens., Assessed except to 24 months.|Pathological complete response rate (Cohort 3), To investigate the effect of Nal-IRI., After treatment and surgery, assessed up to 6 months.|Event-free survival (Cohort 3), To investigate the effect of Nal-IRI., The time from enrollment to any event, including death, disease progression, or switch to a treatment, occurred first. Assessed up to 12 months.
This study is a prospective, multicenter, real-world study. There are four cohorts. Cohorts 1-3 include second-line, posterior-line, and neoadjuvant colorectal cancer patients, respectively. Cohort 4 include patients with the exception of those with pancreatic and colorectal cancer. As this study is a real-world investigation, treatment procedures, visit schedules, and examinations will be based on the routine clinical practice of physicians. Through the above cohort, the efficacy and safety of irinotecan liposome are comprehensively observed.