Intrathecal Trastuzumab for Leptomeningeal Metastases in HER2+ Breast Cancer
The drug being studied is Trastuzumab, a medicine that is used to slow or stop the growth of cancerous tumors that are HER-2 positive. Patients are being asked to participate in this study because they have been diagnosed with having tumor cells in their spinal fluid. This study will investigate the safety and effects of this drug when given directly into the spinal fluid.

Phase I/II Dose Escalation Trial to Assess Safety of Intrathecal Trastuzumab for the Treatment of Leptomeningeal Metastases in HER2 Positive Breast Cancer The purpose of this research study is to determine a safe dose of the drug Trastuzumab and then determine how effective this treatment is.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Trastuzumab
Number of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) of IT Trastuzumab in Sequential Cohorts of Escalating Doses for Patients With Leptomeningeal Metastases in HER2+ Breast Cancer., Patients will be treated using a standard 3+3 dose-escalation design for cohorts 1 and 2. This will be followed by an accelerated phase I for cohorts 3 and 4, and then a standard 3 + 3 for the 5th cohort. In the accelerated phase (cohorts 3 and 4), 1 patient will be enrolled per cohort; if a toxicity is seen in that patient then the cohort would be expanded to 6 patients to allow for 1/6 patients per cohort to have a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) before dose escalation. Cohort 5 will enroll a total of 6 patients regardless of the toxicity experienced in patient one. However, if 2 or more DLTs are observed in cohort 5, cohort 4 will be reopened to enroll of a total of 6 patients. Whatever dose is ultimately declared the MTD should have 6 patients total. If 1/6 DLTs are seen in cohort 5 that will be considered the MTD.

Dosing is as follows:

Cohort 1-10 mg IT Cohort 2-20 mg IT Cohort 3-40 mg IT Cohort 4-60 mg IT Cohort 5-80 mg IT, From treatment initiation through the first 4 weeks of treatment.|Best Response to IT Trastuzumab: Radiological, Cytological and Clinical in Treatment With Intrathecal Trastuzumab for Patients With Leptomeningeal Metastases in HER2+ Breast Cancer., Best response will be assessed using a combination CSF cytology assessment, radiographic assessment and clinical function assessments. Best response will be defined as the best response seen during treatment as compared to baseline that is confirmed on subsequent response assessment., Baseline then at 4 weeks, 8 weeks and then every 8 weeks +/- 3 days, until disease progression or toxicity,range of cycles completed 1-22 cycles where 1 cycle = 28 days.
Define the CSF PK of IT Trastuzumab., Patients may need a CSF flow study at the discretion of the treating principal investigator. If a spinal block is seen by CSF flow study or MRI, it will need local RT prior to treatment. Concurrent radiation is not allowed., CSF analysis for cytology will be done every 2 weeks when CSF is obtained for PK and then every 4 weeks
Phase I: Patients will be treated in cohorts of 3-6 based on standard phase I dose escalation parameters requiring 0/3 or 1/6 patients per cohort to have a DLT before dose escalation. Dosing is as follows: Cohort 1-10 mg IT, cohort 2-20 mg IT, cohort 3-30 mg IT and cohort 4-40 mg IT. Patients will be treated twice a week for 4 weeks, then once a week for 4 weeks, and then every 2 weeks. Toxicity for DLT will be assessed during first 4 weeks of treatment. Phase II: Patients will be treated with the MTD or maximal defined dose. Patients will be treated twice a week for 4 weeks, then once a week for 4 weeks, and then every 2 weeks.