Effectiveness of Ultrasound Guided PECS Block on Opioid Consumption and Patient Satisfaction Through Adequate Pain Control Following Breast Cancer Surgery.
Breast cancer is the most common and leading cause of cancer deaths among females worldwide. Patients undergoing modified radical mastectomy (MRM) are associated with moderate to severe acute postoperative pain and shoulder mobility restriction.

This study aims to determine the effectiveness of ultrasound-guided PECS block for reducing opioid consumption, providing adequate postoperative pain management and improving patient satisfaction following breast cancer surgery.
Breast Neoplasm Female|Pain, Postoperative|Pain|Analgesia|Anaesthesia|Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: PECS Block|OTHER: Control Group
Total intraoperative opioid consumption, Total intraoperative nalbuphine, During surgical procedure|Total postoperative opioid consumption, Total Rescue Tramadol Consumption, First 24 hours after surgery
Patient Satisfaction, Patient satisfaction with post-operative analgesia will be noted via satisfaction scoring i.e.:

1. = Not Satisfied
2. = Good or satisfied
3. = Excellent or very satisfied, First 24 hours after surgery|Postoperative pain score, Numeric rating scale for pain assessment: Patient will be asked to rate their intensity of pain on numeric scale from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain)., 1, 6,12 and 24 hours after surgery|Postoperative nausea and vomiting, Yes or No, First 24 hours after surgery
The traditional pain management for patients undergoing MRM has relied heavily on opioids but a number of multimodal pain control strategies also exist including combining opioids with NSAIDs, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, acetaminophen and regional blocks. Recently, literature underlines the importance of performing regional anaesthetic and analgesic techniques for postoperative analgesia following breast surgery. PECS (Pectoral nerve block) block provides analgesia for breast surgeries with few adverse effects.

OBJECTIVES To evaluate the effect of ultrasound guided pectoral block in reducing intraoperative and postoperative opioid consumption following modified radical mastectomy.

The secondary objective is to determine patient satisfaction levels associated with adequate pain control.

HYPOTHESIS Pectoral nerve blocks provides superior analgesia with less opioid consumption and improves patient satisfaction in postoperative period compared to conventional pain management for modified radical mastectomy patients