Regorafenib Plus Tislelizumab as First-line Systemic Therapy for Patients With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Combination of anti-angiogenic molecular targeted therapy and anti- programmed cell death -1 immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy has shown promising antitumor activity in multiple cancer types, including patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The safety profile and optimal dosage of targeted therapy should be carefully evaluated by clinical trials. Regorafenib is one of the standard second-line systemic therapy for advanced HCC. The present study will test the safety and efficacy of combination of regorafenib and tislelizumab, an anti-programmed cell death-1 ICI. The investigator(s) thus hypothesized that combination of tislelizumab and regorafenib is a tolerable regimen and may improve treatment efficacy for patients with advanced HCC. The present study will explore safety and efficacy of the combination of tislelizumab plus regorafenib as first-line therapy for advanced HCC.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Tislelizumab+regorafenib for part 1;Tislelizumab+regorafenib for group 1 of part 2; Regorafenib for group 2 of part 2.
Safety cohort: 14 participants with treatment related serious adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V5.0., 14 or fewer participants who experience grade 3 or greater treatment-related adverse events at the 80 mg per day level, as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)V5.0., Day 1, Change from Day 1 to 23-37 days after the last dose of study drug treatment.|Randomized cohorts: Objective response rate (ORR) (co-primary), The percentage of 100 participants with radiologically complete or partial response as determined by the investigator according to Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), about 1 year|Randomized cohorts: Progression-free survival (PFS) (co-primary), PFS is measured from the date of study enrollment to radiographically documented progression according to RECIST 1.1 or death from any cause (whichever occurs first)., about 1 year
Safety cohort: safety as assessed by 25 participants experiencing who incidence and severity of total AE, liver related AE, and immune-related AE., 25 participants experiencing who incidence and severity of total AE, liver related AE, and immune-related AE.as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)V5.0., Day 1, Change from Day 1 to 23-37 days after the last dose of study drug treatment.|Safety cohort: Proportion of 25 participants who may escalate the dose of regorafenib (continuous dosing) during study drug treatment, An adequate supply of regorafenib will be dispensed to participants on Day 1 of each new cycle (once every 3 weeks). Each time study drug is dispensed, compliance will be evaluated and encouraged. Treatment compliance will also be monitored by drug accountability log., Day 1 of each cycle|Safety cohort: Objective response rate (ORR), The percentage of 25 participants with radiologically complete or partial response as determined by the investigator according to both RECIST 1.1 and the immune-RECIST., about 1 year|Randomized cohort: safety as assessed by 100 participants experiencing who incidence and severity of total AE, liver related AE, and immune-related AE., 100 participants experiencing who incidence and severity of total AE, liver related AE, and immune-related AE.as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)V5.0., Day 1, Change from Day 1 to 23-37 days after the last dose of study drug treatment.|Randomized cohort: Objective response rate (ORR), The percentage of 100 participants with radiologically complete or partial response as determined by the investigator according to both RECIST 1.1 and the immune-RECIST., about 1 year|Safety cohort: progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is measured from the date of study enrollment to radiographically documented progression according to RECIST 1.1 and the immune-RECIST or death from any cause (whichever occurs first)., about 1 year|Randomized cohort: progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is measured from the date of study enrollment to radiographically documented progression according to RECIST 1.1 and the immune-RECIST or death from any cause (whichever occurs first)., about 1 year
Combination of ICI with anti-angiogenic therapy has been most extensively studies in patients with renal cell carcinoma, for whom both ICI and anti-angiogenic therapy have proven anticancer activity as single-agent therapy. Objective response rate of 30-60% was observed, far exceeding the response rate of single-agent therapy (around 20%). Results from several early-phase trials of this type of combination also support the potential anti-tumor synergy between ICI and anti-angiogenic therapy (multi-kinase inhibitors or monoclonal antibody targeting the vascular endothelial growth factor signaling pathway) in advanced HCC. Further studies should focus on identifying the optimal targeted agent and its biologically effective dosage to achieve the best therapeutic window for the treatment of HCC.

Current evidence indicated the following:

1. Combination of ICI and anti-angiogenic therapy in advanced HCC may have better anti-tumor efficacy compared with single-agent therapy;
2. The immune modulatory effects of the multi-kinase inhibitors may be achieved at dosage lower than recommended for single-agent therapy in the clinic; using this lower dosage when combined with ICI may lower the treatment-related adverse events.
3. Objective response of 40% to 50% was recently reported in a phase 1 study of regorafenib plus nivolumab for patients with advanced gastric or colorectal cancer was reported recently (Fukuoka S, et al. American Society Of Clinical Oncology 2019, abstract#2522). Grade 3 or greater treatment-related adverse events were found in 27% of subjects who received regorafenib 80 mg per day and in 44% of patients who received regorafenib 120 mg per day. Therefore, regorafenib 80 mg/day was defined as the optimal dosage in combination with nivolumab.