Cytokine-Treated Veto Cells in Treating Patients With Hematologic Malignancies Following Stem Cell Transplant
This phase I/II trial studies how well cytokine-treated veto cells work in treating patients with hematologic malignancies following stem cell transplant. Giving chemotherapy and total-body irradiation before a stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cells in the bone marrow, including normal blood-forming cells (stem cells) and cancer cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient, they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Cytokine-treated veto cells may help the transplanted donor cells to develop and grow in recipients without causing graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD - when transplanted donor tissue attacks the tissues of the recipient's body).
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Aplastic Anemia|Bone Marrow Failure|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Follicular Lymphoma|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-Thymocyte Globulin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Cytokine-treated Veto Cells|DRUG: Fludarabine|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation
Optimal dose of donor-derived cytokine-treated veto cells, For the purpose of dose-finding, toxicity is defined as steroid resistant grade 3 or 4 graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD), or death from any cause, within 42 days of veto cell infusion., Within 42 days of cytokine-treated veto cell infusion|Efficacy of veto cells, Efficacy is defined as the patient being alive and engrafted at day 42 post veto cell infusion., At day 42 post cytokine-treated veto cell infusion
Incidence of adverse events, Unadjusted distributions of time-to-event outcomes will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and their relationship to prognostic covariates and veto cell dose level will be evaluated by Bayesian piecewise exponential survival regression., Up to 1 year|Response rate, Unadjusted distributions of time-to-event outcomes will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and their relationship to prognostic covariates and veto cell dose level will be evaluated by Bayesian piecewise exponential survival regression., Up to 1 year|Time to progression, Unadjusted distributions of time-to-event outcomes will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and their relationship to prognostic covariates and veto cell dose level will be evaluated by Bayesian piecewise exponential survival regression., Up to 1 year|Infections, Unadjusted distributions of time-to-event outcomes will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and their relationship to prognostic covariates and veto cell dose level will be evaluated by Bayesian piecewise exponential survival regression., Up to 1 year|Immune reconstitution, Unadjusted distributions of time-to-event outcomes will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and their relationship to prognostic covariates and veto cell dose level will be evaluated by Bayesian piecewise exponential survival regression., Up to 1 year|Overall survival, Unadjusted distributions of time-to-event outcomes will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and their relationship to prognostic covariates and veto cell dose level will be evaluated by Bayesian piecewise exponential survival regression., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the optimal dose of anti-viral veto cells, defined as the dose which achieves engraftment without severe graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) at 42 days after non-myeloablative megadose T cell depleted haploidentical hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Toxicity. II. Response rate. III. Time to progression. IV. Infections. V. Immune reconstitution. VI. Overall survival up to 1 year.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of cytokine-treated veto cells.

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days -9 to -7 and fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -3, then undergo total body irradiation (TBI) on day -1.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) IV over 30-60 minutes on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 3 hours on days +3 and +4 and cytokine-treated veto cells IV over 30-60 minutes on day +7.

After completion of stem cell transplant, patients are followed up once a week for 4 weeks, once a month for 3 months, and then periodically for one year.