The Combination of Anlotinib and Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors for Advanced NSCLC Patients With Muti-line Therapy
Immunotherapy has made a major progress in Lung cancer.However, challenges such as primary and acquired resistance, small fraction of benefit population and lack of predictive and prognostic biomarkers even exist. The overall objective response rate is lower than 20% in second line-treatment and the progression-free survival (PFS) is also similar to or poorer than that of conventional second-line chemotherapy. Anlotinib is a novel, orally administered, multitarget receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits VEGFR, PDGFR, FGFR, c-Kit, and other kinases. It functions by inhibiting tumor angiogenesis and proliferative signaling pathways. We would observe and analyze the effectiveness and safety of anlotinib combined with Immune checkpoint inhibitors for advanced NSCLC after muti-line therapy to explore the synergistic effect of anti-angiogenic agents and immunotherapy.
NSCLC|Angiogenesis|Immunotherapy
DRUG: Anlotinib in combination with Immune checkpoint inhibitors
PFS, the progression-free survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|OS, the over survival, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|AE, adverse event caused by the combination, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Immunotherapy has made a major progress in Lung cancer.However, challenges such as primary and acquired resistance, small fraction of benefit population and lack of predictive and prognostic biomarkers even exist. The overall objective response rate is lower than 20% in second line-treatment and the progression-free survival (PFS) is also similar to or poorer than that of conventional second-line chemotherapy. Anlotinib is a novel, orally administered, multitarget receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits VEGFR, PDGFR, FGFR, c-Kit, and other kinases. It functions by inhibiting tumor angiogenesis and proliferative signaling pathways. We would observe and analyze the effectiveness and safety of anlotinib combined with Immune checkpoint inhibitors for advanced NSCLC after muti-line therapy to explore the synergistic effect of anti-angiogenic agents and immunotherapy.