The Prevent Anal Cancer Self-Swab Study
The purpose of this research study is to find ways to screen for anal cancer among gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender persons. This study will try to find out if persons will do annual anal cancer screening, what factors are associated with repeated screening, and how this affects a person's decision to have high-resolution anoscopy.
Anal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Home-based human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA screening|BEHAVIORAL: Clinic-based human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA screening
Compliance With Annual Anal HPV DNA Screening, Compliance is assessed by the number of participants who provide specimens for annual anal HPV DNA screening, Baseline|Compliance With Annual Anal HPV DNA Screening, Compliance is assessed by the number of participants who provide specimens for annual anal HPV DNA screening, 12 months
Compliance With Annual Screening Based on HIV Status, The number of participants complying with annual screening with positive or negative HIV status. Compliance is defined as screening at baseline and one year., 12 months 12 months|Compliance With Annual Screening Based on Race/Ethnicity, The number of participants complying with annual screening based on race/ethnicity. Racial and ethnic categories are defined by the NIH as follows: American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and White.

Compliance is defined as screening at baseline and one year., 12 months|Number of Participants Attending High-resolution Anoscopy Based on Race/Ethnicity, The number of participants attending high-resolution anoscopy based on race/ethnicity. Racial and ethnic categories are defined by the NIH as follows: American Indian or Alaska Native, Asian, Black or African American, Hispanic or Latino, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander, and White., 12 months|Number of Participants Attending High-resolution Anoscopy Based on HIV Status, The number of participants attending high-resolution anoscopy based on positive or negative HIV status., 12 months|Attendance at High-resolution Anoscopy, Number of participants who attend high-resolution anoscopy (HRA), 12 months
Human Papillomavirus (HPV) DNA Persistence and Its Association With High-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions (HSIL)., The number of participants that have DNA persistence at 12 months with and without high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL)., 12 months|Host/Viral Methylation and Its Association With High-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions., Mean of host/viral methylation score among participants stratified by high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions. The Score 5 (S5) methylation score is an arithmetic continuous risk score with a minimum value of 0 and no maximum value. Higher methylation scores indicate higher risk for disease. While a theoretical maximum for a methylation score does not exist, one published maximum value for anal cancer is approximately 100. In this publication (Lorincz et al., Methylation of HPV and a tumor suppressor gene reveals anal cancer and precursor lesions, DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.17984), a cut-off of 7.5 for methylation score identified all anal cancers and HSIL., 12 months
This is a prospective, randomized, two-arm clinical study to evaluate compliance with annual home-based vs clinic-based DNA screening of anal canal exfoliated cells among Milwaukee HIV+ and HIV- men who have sex with men (MSM) and transgender persons aged ≥25 years. At study entry, persons randomized to arm 1 will receive a home-based collection kit in the mail at 0 and 12 months and those in arm 2 will attend a clinic where a clinician will collect the exfoliated cell specimen at 0 and 12 months. Then, persons will receive high-resolution anoscopy (HRA)-directed biopsy to assess precancerous lesions by study arm. We hypothesize that a majority of persons will comply with annual screening with increased compliance among persons in the home-based arm vs clinic-based arm. The proposed research could indicate that annual HPV DNA screening and subsequent HRA are acceptable to MSM and transgender persons; thus, we will determine how high-risk persons are identified for HRA in light of limited HRA resources. The duration of each participant's activities is expected to be 12 months. The study is expected have participant activity from 2019 to 2023.