A Study of Avelumab in Real-World Treatment for Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Urothelial Cancer
This ambispective (both retrospective and prospective) NIS will evaluate the effectiveness and safety of Avelumab as a maintenance therapy administered after completion of first-line platinum-based chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer under routine conditions of daily clinical practice in Argentina and Brazil in line with the approved Avelumab label indication. Primary objective: • To evaluate overall survival (OS) rate at 12 and 24- months after the index date (date of the first Avelumab administration) in patients treated with Avelumab maintenance therapy. Secondary objectives: • To assess OS in patients treated with Avelumab maintenance therapy. To assess progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with Avelumab maintenance therapy. • To evaluate safety and tolerability of Avelumab maintenance therapy. • To assess duration of treatment (DOT) between the first and last dose of avelumab. • To describe the clinical and demographics characteristics of Argentinean and Brazilian patients treated with Avelumab maintenance therapy. Other objectives: • To evaluate anti-tumor effectiveness of Avelumab maintenance therapy.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Avelumab
Overall Survival (OS), To evaluate OS rate at 12- and 24- months after the index date (date of the first Avelumab administration) in patients treated with Avelumab maintenance therapy., 36 months
Progression-Free Survival, Patients treated with Avelumab maintenance therapy, 36 months|OS, In patients treated with Avelumab maintenance therapy, 36 months|Duration Of Treatment, Between the first and last dose of Avelumab, 36 months|Frequency and nature of all-cause adverse events (AEs), Toxicity; Dosage change (frequency and dosses approved); Progression disease; Cardiological Abnormalities; Dyspnea; Cough; Pneumonitis; Lab Abnormalities, 36 months|Frequency of all-cause AEs leading to discontinuation or interruption of Avelumab maintenance therapy, Progression disease; Toxicity; Patient Decision, 36 months|Duration of Avelumab maintenance therapy among the patients who discontinued the study drug due to all-cause AEs, Disease progression; Toxicity; Patient Decision, 36 months|Frequency of potential signs and symptoms of immune-related AEs, Dyspnea; Fatigue; Rush; Glottis Edema; Cardiological Abnormalities; Cough; Pneumonitis, 36 months|Frequency of patients with Avelumab dosing change due to any AE related to this drug, Dosage decrease for toxicity, 36 months
Urothelial carcinoma are tumors originating from the urothelial cells that line the bladder, renal pelvis, ureter, and urethra. Each year, bladder cancer (BC) accounts for 3.0% of global cancer diagnoses, with more than 570,000 new cases diagnosed and 2.1% of new deaths, with more than 210,000 deaths worldwide. In Latin America, BC placed the 10th and 9th positions in the incidence of cancer in Argentina and Brazil, respectively, and both countries have BC as the 5th most frequent cancers among males excluding non-melanoma skin cancer. 2-4 Among men, BC is the 6th most common cancer and the 9th leading cause of cancer death. Incidence and mortality in males are approximately four times higher compared to women with BC globally. In 2020, Argentina and Brazil reported over 3,700 and 15,800 new cases of BC, respectively. The 5-year prevalence at all ages of 11,401 (25 per 100,000) in Argentina and 43,545 (20 per 100,000) in Brazil. Besides male population, other risk factors for BC include prevalence of tobacco smoking, infection with Schistosoma haematobium, occupational exposures to organic solvents, and arsenic contamination in drinking water. 2,5 First-line standard of care for patients with advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer is a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen; however, the median OS in patients treated with Cisplatin-based chemotherapy is only 12-14 months, approximately. Besides, most patients with advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer commonly experience disease progression within 9 months after initiation of treatment