Impact of Total Intravenous Anesthesia Following Cancer Surgery, TIVACS Study
This phase II trials studies the impact of total intravenous anesthesia (TIVA) following cancer surgery. Surgery and the anesthesia delivered causes physiologic stress and trauma resulting in immune suppression. TIVA is an alternative method of general anesthesia that has several benefits over volatile inhalation agents such as reducing nausea, vomiting, and opioid consumption, and promotes earlier return of bowel function following surgery. In addition, TIVA is less immunosuppressive than inhalational agents and has been shown to decrease cancer cell proliferation, migration, and metastasis formation. Giving TIVA during cancer-directed abdominal surgery may decrease the immunosuppressive state in the peri-surgical period.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Anesthesia Procedure|DRUG: General Anesthesia Procedure|PROCEDURE: Resection
Impact of anesthetic agent on inflammation and immunosuppression, All data analysis will use Student's t-test, Chi2 test and multivariable regression analysis using linear mixed model. The incidence of these outcomes will also be associated with NET levels., Up to 2 years
Impact of anesthetic choice on short-term anesthetic and surgical outcomes, All data analysis will use Student's t-test, Chi2 test and multivariable regression analysis using linear mixed model. The incidence of these outcomes will also be associated with NET levels., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the impact of anesthetic agent on inflammation and immunosuppression among patients undergoing abdominal cancer surgery.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the impact of anesthetic choice on short-term anesthetic and surgical outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo surgical resection with TIVA.

ARM II: Patients undergo surgical resection with inhaled volatile anesthetics.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.