Home or Away From Home - Descriptive Interviews (Aim 2)
The primary objectives of this study are to identify what outcomes related to the management of neutropenia are most important to children with AML and their caregivers. Patients who have completed treatment for AML and their caregivers will be interviewed in order to better understand the impact of neutropenia management on children with AML and their families. The primary outcome of these interviews is to identify patient-centered outcomes related to neutropenia management to include in a subsequent comparative-effectiveness analysis. Investigators will use these data to develop a structured survey for administration to prospectively identified patients in subsequent studies.
Pediatric Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Issues Related to Type of Neutropenia Management That Are Most Important to Children and Their Caregivers., Issues related to type of neutropenia management are not quantifiable. All interviewees gave unique responses to issues related to neutropenia management, and themes were identified after all interviews were conducted and analyzed., One qualitative semi-structured interview was conducted post-neutropenia management. The interview lasted about 30-45 minutes.
Treatment for pediatric acute myeloid leukemia (AML) involves intensive chemotherapy regimens that result in periods of profound neutropenia leaving patients susceptible to severe infectious complications. There are little clinical data to inform whether management of neutropenia post AML chemotherapy should occur in an outpatient or inpatient setting. Further, no studies have been conducted that assess the impact of neutropenia management strategy on the quality of life of pediatric patients with AML. Given that infectious complications are the leading cause of treatment related mortality among AML patients, it is important to identify the neutropenia management strategy that will lead to the best clinician- and patient- identified outcomes in order to improve the care of these patients.

This is a qualitative interview study where interviews of patients and/or caregivers will be performed. Participants will be patients less than 19 years of age at diagnosis (and their caregivers) receiving or having received chemotherapy for AML from eleven participating pediatric hospitals across the United States. Participants (children and caregivers) will be interviewed in an effort to develop a survey that captures patient- and caregiver- identified outcomes related to neutropenia management.