Registry Trial to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Hyperthermia in Locally Advanced Cancers
Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (MGIMS), Sevagram, District Wardha, Maharashtra, India is located in a rural setup and caters to a very underprivileged patient population with limited resources to even pay for their treatment. As per the latest Indian Cancer Registry Report 2020, of the 28 population based cancer registries (PBCR), the age adjusted incidence rates (AAR) in males and females are 64.9 and 69.9. This makes the AAR in Wardha District (district where MGIMS is located) as one of the lowest ranked AAR both for male (national range: 39.5 - 269.4) and females (national range: 49.4 - 219.8) in the country. However, the %mortality / incidence, is one of the highest for Wardha, both for males (65.9%, national range: 14.7% - 71.9%) and females (53%, national range: 9% - 63%). This indicates that the prognosis of patients in this district is one of the worst in India and thus requires a new approach to their standard therapeutic option. This has to be cost-effective, without any significant additional morbidity, and should used in conjunction to the standard treatment of radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy.

Hyperthermia, which is raising the tumor temperature to 40 - 43°C is perhaps one of the oldest forms of treatment for cancer. Hyperthermia, being a potent radiosensitizer, a chemosensitizer, an immunomodulator with no significantly added side effects, could be an effective therapeutic modality that could be expected to improve the outcome in these patients. However, it also needs to be cost-effective and require low capital cost investment so that other centers, especially in low and low-middle income countries could also introduce hyperthermia to the therapeutic armamentarium for cancer.

This is a registry trial for patients being treated with hyperthermia along with radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy as per the standard departmental protocol for various locally advanced cancers.
Locally Advanced Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Hyperthermia
Locoregional tumour control, Locoregional control of the tumour, At 3 months after the completion of primary treatment|Disease free survival, From date of registration until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed till end of the study completion, an average of 1 year, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Overall survival, From date of registration until the date of death from any cause, assessed till end of the study completion, an average of 1 year, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Acute treatment related morbidity, Acute treatment morbidity as per CTCAE 5.0 guidelines, Till 3 months following the completion of primary treatment|Late treatment related morbidity, Late treatment morbidity as per CTCAE 5.0 guidelines, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
To carry out a registry trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of hyperthermia delivered by a repurposed short wave diathermy unit working at 27.1 MHz along with radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced tumours of head neck cancers, cancer cervix, breast, oesophagus and anorectum attending the department of radiotherapy, MGIMS.

This would help to create an organized system that uses observational methods to collect uniform data on safety and efficacy of hyperthermia when used in conjunction with standard therapeutic modalities of radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy. The study would help to,

i. Evaluate the specific outcomes with hyperthermia in terms of the following clinical endpoints with hyperthermia

1. Locoregional tumour control
2. Local disease free survival
3. Overall survival

ii. Evaluate the safety of hyperthermia along with standard therapeutic modalities of radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy

1. Acute morbidity
2. Late morbidity

iii. Evaluate the feasibility of carrying out hyperthermia by repurposing 27.12 MHz short wave diathermy unit that could be cost-effective