Contrast Enhanced Intraoperative Ultrasound for Detection and Characterization of Renal Mass Undergoing Open Partial Nephrectomy
The goal of this clinical research is to learn how effective an ultrasound contrast agent, called DEFINITY, is when used during ultrasound-guided surgery to remove part of one or both kidneys.
Kidney Cancer
PROCEDURE: Contrast Enhanced Intraoperative Ultrasound|DRUG: DEFINITY|BEHAVIORAL: Phone Call
Successful Capture of IO-CEUS Images, Primary objective is to determine feasibility of obtaining intraoperative (IO) contrast enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) images in participants undergoing open partial nephrectomy. Feasibility defined as the successful capture of IO-CEUS images in 8 out of 10 participants., 1 day
Assess Image Quality of the Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound (CEUS), Number of participants that show better image quality in terms of lesion conspicuity and enhancement following contrast injection vs. baseline., 1 day
DEFINITY is a contrast agent that is used to create better quality ultrasound images.

On the day before or the day of the standard of care surgery, women who are able to become pregnant must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test. If it a blood pregnancy test is performed, a portion of blood will be used from routine blood draws that are collected as part of your standard of care surgery.

During your standard of care surgery, the radiologist will take images and videos with an ultrasound machine before you are given the contrast agent. This is done to learn if cancer has spread around the kidney.

You will then receive the DEFINITY by vein over about 1 minute. After you receive the injection of DEFINITY, the radiologist will take more images and videos of the tumor and kidney(s) to compare to those recorded earlier.

Length of Study:

Your active participation in this study will be over after you have completed the follow-up visit.

Follow-Up Phone Call:

You will have a follow-up phone call 30 days after your standard of care surgery is complete to review any side effects you may be having. This call should take about 10 minutes to complete.

This is an investigational study. DEFINITY is FDA approved and commercially available for use in contrast enhanced echocardiography. It is not FDA approved or commercially available for use in radiology.

Up to 11 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.