Tanespimycin in Treating Women With Refractory Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well tanespimycin works in treating women with refractory locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as tanespimycin, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: tanespimycin|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response Rate (Complete Response (CR) +Partial Response (PR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 7 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as either progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 7 years|Her2/Neu Status, Response rates will be estimated separately for her2/neu positive and her2/neu negative individuals along with 95% confidence intervals.

PLEASE NOTE: IT WAS PROPOSED TO ANALYZE OUTCOME BY HER2 STATUS, NO DATA WAS COLLECTED OR EVALUATED., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate of 17-Allylamino-17-Demethoxygeldanamycin (17-AAG) (tanespimycin) in patients with refractory/resistant metastatic breast cancer.

II. To determine the progression free survival (PFS) of patients with refractory/resistant metastatic breast cancer when treated with 17-AAG.

III. To correlate patients' her2/neu status with response to 17-AAG treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive tanespimycin IV over 1-6 hours on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed at day 30, every 10-12 weeks until disease progression, and then every 3 months thereafter.