A Study of Oral Erdafitinib in People With Recurrent Non-Invasive Bladder Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of erdafitinib in people with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) that has come back after standard treatment, such as Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) or chemotherapy instilled into the bladder. Participants in this study will have bladder cancer with a mutation in the FGFR3 gene. FGFR3 mutations are the most common genetic alteration in NMIBC and is present in the majority of recurrent NMIBC tumors. Genetic testing of the participant's prior or recurrent NMIBC tumor will be performed to confirm it has an FGFR3 gene mutation. Erdafitinib is a pill given orally (by mouth) that blocks the protein made by this altered gene, which may stop cancer cells from growing. Erdafitinib is already used as an approved treatment for metastatic bladder cancer. Researchers are doing this study to determine whether erdafitinib is an effective treatment for FGFR3-altered non-muscle invasive bladder cancer in the time period between when a recurrent tumor is identified and a TURBT (transurethral resection of a bladder tumor) or biopsy procedure is performed to remove it.
Bladder Cancer|Recurrent Bladder Cancer|FGFR3 Gene Mutation
DRUG: Erdafitinib
Objective response rate, The primary endpoint of this trial is the objective response rate at the time of TURBT/biopsy (defined as the proportion of patients achieving a complete or partial pathologic response by cytologic examination, cystoscopic examination, and biopsy) following treatment with erdafitinib. A complete response is defined as the absence of tumor on TURBT/biopsy, with a negative urinary cytologic result; a partial response is defined as a decrease of at least 50% in the size of the target tumor(s), on the basis of modified RECIST 1.1 criteria (RECIT-BLADDER)., 3 weeks after first study treatment
The purpose of this study is to assess the effectiveness of erdafitinib in people with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) that has come back after standard treatment, such as Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) or chemotherapy instilled into the bladder. Participants in this study will have bladder cancer with a mutation in the FGFR3 gene. FGFR3 mutations are the most common genetic alteration in NMIBC and is present in the majority of recurrent NMIBC tumors. Genetic testing of the participant's prior or recurrent NMIBC tumor will be performed to confirm it has an FGFR3 gene mutation. Erdafitinib is a pill given orally (by mouth) that blocks the protein made by this altered gene, which may stop cancer cells from growing. Erdafitinib is already used as an approved treatment for metastatic bladder cancer. Researchers are doing this study to determine whether erdafitinib is an effective treatment for FGFR3-altered non-muscle invasive bladder cancer in the time period between when a recurrent tumor is identified and a TURBT (transurethral resection of a bladder tumor) or biopsy procedure is performed to remove it.