Phase I/II Study of Vaccination With Antigen Loaded Dendritic Cells (DCs) in Patients With Inoperable Stage III and Stage IV Melanoma
The prognosis of patients with metastatic melanoma is poor and current available treatments are limited. Identification of a number of melanoma-specific tumor antigens that are shared by tumors from different patients, provides attractive targets for immune-based therapies (http://www.bioinfo.org.cn/hptaa/). Different approaches like DNA-/RNA-vaccines, peptide vaccines and dendritic cell (DC) vaccines are under investigation to induce peptide-specific immune responses. In various animal models and in clinical trials it was shown that the most potent induction of anti tumor-specific killer cells was achieved with DC vaccination. DCs are professional antigen presenting cells (APC) that are critical in the initiation of cellular responses in naïve T lymphocytes, in vivo. They are armed with all the molecules needed for the induction of immune responses and have the capacity to migrate into secondary lymphatic organs. In vitro generated dendritic cells are loaded with tumor derived peptides and injected subcutaneously. The concept is to induce or to propagate already existing tumor specific killer T cells.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic cell application
Toxicity as defined by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria Version 3.0 (App I), If any grade III or IV toxicity occurs within 24 hours of the vaccine treatment, no further vaccinations will be given. Grade III or IV toxicities arising later will only lead to treatment termination if the toxicity is clinically significant and can be attributed to the vaccination., 24 hours
Response rates in case of measurable disease, Three indicator lesions that are measurable in 2 diameters will be assessed radiologically. If there are not three measurable lesions, only the measurable lesions will be assessed., 12 weeks, 20 weeks, 28 weeks
Peptide specific cellular immunity: Analyses of peptide specific peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) by - tetramer method (flow cytometry) - interferon-gamma ELISPOT, Monitoring of immune responses in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) via enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) and Tetramer-staining., 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 20 weeks, 28 weeks
The prognosis of patients with metastatic melanoma is poor and current available treatments are limited. Identification of a number of melanoma-specific tumor antigens that are shared by tumors from different patients, provides attractive targets for immune-based therapies (http://www.bioinfo.org.cn/hptaa/). Different approaches like DNA-/RNA-vaccines, peptide vaccines and dendritic cell (DC) vaccines are under investigation to induce peptide-specific immune responses. In various animal models and in clinical trials it was shown that the most potent induction of anti tumor-specific killer cells was achieved with DC vaccination. DCs are professional antigen presenting cells (APC) that are critical in the initiation of cellular responses in naïve T lymphocytes, in vivo. They are armed with all the molecules needed for the induction of immune responses and have the capacity to migrate into secondary lymphatic organs. In vitro generated dendritic cells are loaded with tumor derived peptides and injected subcutaneously. The concept is to induce or to propagate already existing tumor specific killer T cells.