Effect of a Low Residue Diet in Comparison to the Dietetic Recommendations From the INCan in Cervical Cancer Patients
In Mexico, cervical cancer (CC) ranks second in incidence and mortality among women. The National Institute of Cancer in Mexico (lNCan) receives annually about 500 patients with CC, 80% of which are diagnosed with locally advanced disease. The standard treatment for locally advanced disease consists in concomitant chemo-radiotherapy based on cisplatin (QT-RT), followed by brachytherapy, with an absolute benefit of 10%. Adverse effects include gastrointestinal toxicity, which is the most important factor limiting the dosage of pelvic radiation. Cancer treatment, in any modality, induces malnutrition, more so when combined treatments are administered. Radiation induced gastrointestinal toxicity is caused by different factors, among which are malabsorption of bile, fat and carbohydrates, decrease in brush border enzymes, diverticular disease, proctitis, and psychological factors. International guidelines for cancer patients recommend nutritional assessment in these patients before they start treatment, so nutritional risk can be detected and the patient may get started on dietary intervention to prevent malnutrition. Several authors have studied the dietary management that may help reduce the gastrointestinal effects in cancer patients receiving pelvic radiotherapy. To reduce diarrhea and prevent malnutrition the recommended dietary approach is a low residue diet consisting on 20-25% kcal from fat, 5g of lactose and 20g of fiber. Currently the INCan does not follow the nutrition care process for cervical cancer patients; written recommendations are given to the patients with a list of foods allowed or not allowed, with no further nutritional assessment or intervention. From previous studies, the investigators have demonstrated that the current recommendations do not help the patients maintain their nutritional status, during their treatment most patients become malnourished (81%, p\<0.01). Therefore, the aim of this clinical trial is to evaluate a diet low in residue in CC patients, considering the necessary modifications for each patient if morbidities are present, in comparison with the current dietary recommendations used in the INCan.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasm|Dietary Modification|Radiation Toxicity|Gastrointestinal Complication
OTHER: Dietary modification
Change in Gastrointestinal toxicity symptoms grading scale using the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4), Evaluation of the gastrointestinal symptoms according to the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4).

A grading scale is provided for each adverse event (AE) term. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. The CTCAE displays Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline:

Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated.

Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living.

Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care activities of daily living.

Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., Baseline, 3 weeks after treatment initiation, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and 6 months after treatment initiation .|Changes in nutritional status, Evaluation the change of the nutritional status by the Patient Generated Subjective Global Assessment.

The Patient Generated Subjective Global Assessment is a questionnaire that comprises 7 sections: weight, intake, symptoms, functional capacity, disease and its relationship to nutritional requirements, metabolic demand and physical evaluation. Based on the previous results the interviewer will define which of the following three groups the individual surveyed belongs to:

A: well nourished. B: moderately or suspiciously undernourished. C: severely malnourished., Baseline, 3 weeks after treatment initiation, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and 6 months after treatment initiation .|Changes in food intake, Change in food intake assessed by 24-hour reminder This method consists of questioning the subject to find out everything he or she ingested the day before. It includes three lists of foods to help the interviewee remember, the first is a quick list that contains drinks and foods, the second list contains foods that are commonly forgotten and the interview closes with a detailed description of everything that was consumed, Baseline, 3 weeks after treatment initiation, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and 6 months after treatment initiation .
Changes in body weight, Evaluation the changes of the body weight (kilograms) The measurement will be done on a hospital scale SECA brand., Baseline, 3 weeks after treatment initiation, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and 6 months after treatment initiation .|Changes in body composition (phase angle), Evaluation the changes of the phase angle (grades) by the bioelectrical impedance Biolelectrical impedances will be evaluated by body composition analyzer Quantun IV The phase angle is a nutritional indicator which evaluates the distribution of intracellular and extracellular fluid, therefore, it has been described as an indicator of the quality of the cell membrane, Baseline, 3 weeks after treatment initiation, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and 6 months after treatment initiation .|Changes in handgrip strength measures, Evaluation the change of the handgrip strength (kilograms)

Handgript strength will be evaluated by a dinamometer Takei Hand strength is a simple measure, it has been used to estimate total muscle strength and has been described as a marker of nutritional status, in addition, it is related to mortality and morbidity (56).

The instrument for measuring hand force is the dynamometer, and the cut-off points for making a diagnosis of sarcopenia in women is a result ﹤de 20 kg, while in men it is ﹤de 30 kg, Baseline, 3 weeks after treatment initiation, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and 6 months after treatment initiation .|Change in quality of life summary score using the the quality of life questionnaire specifically developed for cancer patients (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30 v3)), Quality of life questionnaire developed and validated for cancer patients ((European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30 v3)) will be applied, and the change in summary score will be evaluated.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire evaluates the quality of life in oncological population, is composed of both multi-item and single-item measures. It has 30 items, including nine scales: five functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive and social functioning), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea / vomiting) and one global health status/QoL scale. Six single items are also included (Dyspnea, Insomnia, Appetite loss, Constipation, Diarrhea and Financial difficulties). A high score for all functional and global health/QoL scales represents a high/healthy level of functioning/high QoL, whereas a high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptoms/problems., Baseline, 3 weeks after treatment initiation, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and 6 months after treatment initiation .|Change in quality of life for cervical cancer patients: (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Cervical cancer module- EORTC QLQ-CX 24), Change in quality of life summary score and subescales using The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Cervical Cancer Module (EORTC QLQ-CX24). The EORTC QLQ-CX24 is the supplementary module of the QLQ-C30 aimed to evaluate quality of life of cervical cancer patients.

The EORTC QLQ-CX24 is the supplementary module of the QLQ-C30 aimed to evaluate quality of life of cervical cancer patients. It consists of 24 items divided in three multi-item scales to assess symptoms experience (gastrointestinal and genitourinary), body image and sexual/vaginal functioning, and six single items to assess lymphedema, peripheral neuropathy, menopausal symptoms, sexual worry, sexual activity and sexual enjoyment. The last five questions are answered only by patients with an active sex life. Higher scores are equivalent to worse or more symptoms, except for items 49 and 54 (higher score indicates better quality of life)., Baseline, 3 weeks after treatment initiation, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and 6 months after treatment initiation .
In Mexico, cervical cancer (CC) is the second most frequent cause of death among women, with a mortality rate of 4000 women/year. Among the patients attended by the INCan, 80% are diagnosed with locally advanced CC and 30% of these present comorbidities. Hypertension may be present in 20% of patients, obesity in 18% and diabetes in 6.8%. These comorbidities affect the efficacy of treatment, increase the risk of malnutrition, of adverse events, hospitalization, increase hospital stay and worsen the quality of life, and even increase the risk of death. Furthermore, 10 to 20% of patients present kidney deterioration. The main reason for kidney disease is ureteral obstruction. The glomerular filtration rate deteriorates with age and many patients have comorbid medical illnesses that further compromise the kidneys. The standard treatment for CC is concomitant chemo-radiotherapy using cisplatin as a radiosensitizer, and brachytherapy at the end of treatment. Studies developed in the INCan described the acute toxicity symptoms in CC patients using this treatment: nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, cystitis, radioepithelitis, leucopenia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia. Pelvic radiotherapy causes gastrointestinal toxicity, which is the most important limiting factor for the patients to complete their treatment. Cancer treatment, along with the tumor itself and other factors, causes malnutrition, and this confers a bad prognosis for the patient's response to treatment and survival. There is a nutritional risk in these patients at the moment of diagnosis, because of the metabolic alterations caused by the tumor, and the treatment-induced side effects. International guidelines for cancer patients recommend nutritional assessment in these patients before they start treatment, so nutritional risk can be detected and the patient may get started on dietary intervention to prevent malnutrition. Several authors have studied the dietary management that may help reduce the gastrointestinal effects in cancer patients receiving pelvic radiotherapy. To reduce diarrhea and prevent malnutrition the recommended dietary approach is a low residue diet consisting on 20-25% fat, 5g of lactose and 20g of fiber. Currently the INCan does not follow the nutrition care process for cervical cancer patients; written recommendations are given to the patients with a list of foods allowed or not allowed, with no further nutritional assessment or intervention. The investigators described the nutritional status of CC patients undergoing concomitant chemo-radiotherapy. It was observed that by the end of cancer treatment, a period of 9 weeks, 81.8% of patients became malnourished; 96% of patients lost weight, 78% of which had severe weight loss.

The aim of this clinical trial is to evaluate a diet low in residue in CC patients, considering the necessary modifications for each patient if morbidities are present, in comparison with the current dietary recommendations used in the INCan. A thorough nutritional evaluation including anthropometric data, dietary data, gastrointestinal toxicity and quality of life evaluations, will be performed.

Particular objectives are the following:

1. Identify the nutritional status of CC patients before, during and after treatment with chemo-radiotherapy, in intervention and control groups.
2. Determine the association of malnutrition and gastrointestinal toxicity during and after treatment, in intervention and control groups.
3. Evaluate the quality of life of patients before, during and after treatment, in both groups.
4. Establish the association of nutritional status and response to treatment, in both groups.

The aim is based on the following hypothesis: Patients receiving the personalized nutritional intervention with the low residue diet will maintain a better nutritional status during treatment, reflected in fewer malnourished patients, compared to the control group.

Methods.

Study design. Randomized clinical trial, open, factorial 3X2. To evaluate the efficacy of a low residue diet on the nutritional status, gastrointestinal toxicity and quality of life of CC patients referring to the National Institute of Cancer in Mexico (INCan). 320 patients will be included, with cervical malignant tumors of epithelial origin in the neck of the uterus, candidates for chemo-radiotherapy.

Dietary intervention will consist on a low residue diet: 20% kcal from fat, 5g lactose/day, 20g fiber/day (5g from insoluble fiber).

Dietary intervention will be adapted to the patient's individual requirements, according to the presence of comorbidities or renal deterioration.

1. No comorbidities. Energy: 20-30 kcal/kg of body weight/day. Protein: 1.3 g/kg of body weight/day.
2. Comorbidities (diabetes, hypertension), or geriatric patient. Energy: 25-30 kcal/kg of body weight/day. Protein: 1.5 g/kg of body weight/day.
3. Renal deterioration.

Energy: 30-35 kcal/kg of body weight/day.

Protein: 1 g/kg of body weight/day.

Sodium: 2000-2300 mg/day

Potassium: 1900-2730 mg/day

Phosphorus: 800-1000 mg/day

Control group will receive the standard written recommendations from the INCan, which enlist allowed foods and not allowed foods.

Sample size.

A sample space of 320 patients will be included if prior consent is acquired and if they meet the inclusion criteria. This clinical trial contemplates 3 strata with 2 levels.

Statistical analysis.

A univariate analysis will be performed to describe the study population. Descriptive statistics will be used to obtain measures of central tendency and dispersion, as well as frequency of distribution for qualitative variables. Percentage change of nutritional status will be calculated using the Friedman test. Chi square test will be used to compare basal vs final assessment, and chi square test will be used to compare among study groups. All confidence intervals will be constructed with a confidence of 95% (α=0.05). The interpretation of the study results will be responsibility of researchers. Data processing and analysis will be performed with the SPSS package (version 19.0®) for Microsoft.

Efficacy analysis.

Efficacy will be evaluated in patients that qualify to be included in the protocol analysis. To evaluate efficacy, nutritional diagnosis through the clinical course will be analyzed in both, intervention and control, groups. Also, toxicity and quality of life responses will be obtained.

Procedures.

Treatment. Anticancer treatment will consist of Cisplatin as a radiosensitizer, at a dosage of 40 mg/m2/week for 6 weeks. For patients with renal deterioration Gemcitabine will be used instead of Cisplatin, at a dosage of 300 mg/m2/week for 6 weeks. Concomitantly, external pelvic radiotherapy will be applied at a total dosage of 50.4 Gy divided by 28 fractions, 1.8 Gy/day/5 days a week, for 6 weeks. After completing concomitant chemo-radiotherapy, intracavitary brachytherapy will be administered at low dosage (30 Gy of Cesium 137) or high dosage (Iridium). Before initiating chemo-radiotherapy, a complete evaluation will be applied as mentioned.

Once eligibility criteria are verified, patients will be randomly assigned to intervention group or control group.

Visits during the study. After signing the informed consent, the patient will be informed when she will begin participating in the study (screening visit). If the patient complies with the inclusion criteria, a total of 5 visits will be scheduled: (1) at week -2, 2 weeks before treatment; (2) at week 0, on initiation of treatment; (3) at week 3, on the 3rd cycle of chemotherapy; (4) at week 9, by the end of brachytherapy; and (5) at week 21, 3 months after treatment completion.

Monitoring.

A thorough evaluation on each visit will be performed using the following tools:

* Patient generated subjective global assessment.
* Anthropometric data: weight, height, waist circumference, hip circumference, arm circumference.
* Body mass index.
* Waist to hip ratio.
* Body composition (bioelectrical impedance).
* % weight loss.
* Hand dynamometry.
* Dietary data: 24 hour recall and frequency of food intake questionnaires.
* % recommended energy intake.
* Biochemical markers: serum albumin, number of lymphocytes.
* Gastrointestinal toxicity using the CTCAE v4.03.
* Quality of life using the QLQ-C30 and CxC24.

Sample collection. No tissue or additional blood samples will be obtained, other than the blood samples used as part of the routine clinical laboratory tests.

Informed consent acquisition. On the screening visit, the written consent will be read and explained to the patient, clarifying the risks and benefits involved in the study. Two witnesses, independent from the study, will be present. The patient will have the choice to not participate or withdraw from the study at any time, her decision will not affect the quality of care and treatment that the attending physician will provide. The researcher will be governed by the ethical principles established in the Helsinki Accord. The physician will adequately respond all the matters of interest to the patient.

Ethical considerations.

The Research Committee and the Ethics Committee of the National Institute of Cancer in Mexico has approved the protocol and the informed consent document.

Patients participating in this study will be informed, through the informed consent, of all the details concerning this trial. The patients who agree to participate in the trial will express their willingness by signing the informed consent document, being clarified that they can leave the trial at any time, if they wish to do so.

Regulatory considerations.

This study abides by the ethical principles established by the international community, in accordance to the Good Clinical Practices, the Nüremberg Code, the Helsinki Accord, the Statement of Compliance with International Conference on Harmonization Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice, and the Regulations of the General Law of Health in the matter of research for health.