Celecoxib and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Celecoxib may slow the growth of cancer by stopping blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy and celecoxib may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of celecoxib and docetaxel in treating patients who have non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Celecoxib|DRUG: Docetaxel
Efficacy of combining celecoxib with docetaxel in elderly (> or = 70 yrs old) or poor performance status (PS)of 2, Blood levels of VEGF \& PGE2, Weeks 1, 2, and 3
Response rate of Celecoxib and Docetaxel, CT Chest/Abdomen, Every 2 cycles (or every 42 days); After therapy is completed or if the patient is only on Celecosxib, will be assessed for progression every month by clinical exam and every 3 months by radiological evaluation.|Toxicity of Celecoxib and Docetaxel, Routine bloodwork, Weeks 1, 2, and 3 of each 28 day cycle|Expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in tumors, Tissue sample from initial diagnosis, parrafin embedded tissue block, Pre-Study|Changes in plasma levels of prostaglandin E2(PGE2) & vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), Collecting blood plasma, Pre-study, Weeks 1, 2 and 5
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the efficacy and feasibility of celecoxib combined with docetaxel as first-line therapy in elderly or poor performance status patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
* Determine the response rate of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily (beginning on day -7 of the first course) and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses after CR. Patients who achieve stable disease (SD) or a partial response (PR) receive a minimum of 2 additional courses after SD or PR. At the discretion of the treating physician, patients then receive maintenance therapy comprising celecoxib only.

Patients who discontinue therapy for disease progression or unacceptable toxicity are followed for at least 6 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 21-39 patients will be accrued for this study within 13-28 months.