Effects of Clinical Pilates and Yoga Training in Lymphedema
The aim of our study is to compare the effects of clinical Pilates and yoga training on lymphedema, upper limb muscle strength, proprioception, functions and quality of life in women with lymphedema after breast cancer.
Lymphedema|Exercise
OTHER: Yoga|OTHER: Clinical Pilates|OTHER: An educational booklet
upper extremity lymphedema, Bilateral arm volume was measured with the upper extremity volumetric cup.Participants submerged their arm and hand into a water-filled column up to their axilla, and the volume of displaced water was recorded. Due to differences in volumetric measurement between both arms, it will be recorded., eight weeks
upper extremity muscle endurance, Muscle endurance will be evaluated by isokinetic dynamometer.For the extremity to be tested in the supine position, when the shoulder is in 90° abduction and the elbow is 90° flexed, the isokinetic force measurements of the shoulder internal and external rotation movements will be performed with an angular velocity of 240° / s at 15 repetitions., eight weeks|upper extremity muscle strength, muscle strength will be evaluated by isokinetic dynamometer.For the extremity to be tested in the supine position, when the shoulder is in 90° abduction and the elbow is 90° flexed, the isokinetic force measurements of the shoulder internal and external rotation movements will be performed with an angular velocity of 180° / s at 5 repetitions., eight weeks|upper extremity proprioception, upper extremity proprioceptionuwill be evaluated by isokinetic dynamometer. Proprioception tests were performed during active joint position sense, passive joint position sense and kinesthesia.

While the individuals are lying on their back, the shoulder will be positioned in 90° abduction in the coronal plane and the elbow in 90° flexion and fixed at the level of the chest and ankle. proprioception test, subjects were testedwhile lay comfortably down an adjustable bed. To eliminate visual clues and ears closed with headphones to all subjects were blindfolded.shoulder active joint position sense, passive joint position sense and kinesthesia test measurements of 0-45° external rotation movements will be performed with the shoulder in of 90° abduction and the elbow 90° in flexion positıon, with to be 3 repetitions. A pressure splint will be worn to prevent sensory input to the skin in passive joint position sense., eight weeks|upper extremity functions, to evaluate upper extremity functions will be done DASH questionnaire.This survey is a disability and symptom scale that evaluates the upper extremity functions in the last week. It contains 30 items regarding symptoms and daily life activities. 21 items provide information about levels of difficulties experienced with the shoulder, arm and hand while carrying out different physical activities, 5 items provide information about pain, tingling, weakness and stiffness during physical activities of differing intensity, and 4 items provide information about social activities, occupation and sleeping disorders. DASH survey scores an a 5-point likert scale and total scores changes in the range of 0-100. It is completed in about 5-7 minutes. The score. A higher score indicates more disabilities and symptoms., eight weeks|Quality of Life Questionnaire, to evaluate Quality of Life Questionnaire will be done EORTC QLQ-BR23. It is a 4-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The total high scores obtained from the QLQ-BR 23 questionnaire with which patients' quality of daily lives is analyzed indicate difficulties in performing daily living activities, functional activities and reduction in the quality of life., eight weeks
A total of 60 post breast cancer lymphedema individuals will be included in our study. The study will be performed in individuals who live in T.R.N.C and who develop mild, moderate or severe lymphedema after breast cancer in the 35-70 age range.

A randomized controlled trial design with three groups were used; 1) A Hatha yoga intervention group, 2) Clinical Pilates intervention group, 3) Control group.

Individuals in the intervention groups will be given 24 sessions of yoga or Clinical Pilates training 3 times a week for 8 weeks. Control group will not receive any treatment. During the training, and control group individuals will be asked to wear compression stockings during the 8 weeks and an educational booklet will be given to the each group.

The yoga classes included a progression of low-impact, modified poses, stretching and isometric exercises focused on the shoulders, arms, and chest, and meditation. Breathing and poses to drain the lymphatic system were incorporated throughout the yoga practice to assist with lymphatic flow. Before starting the Clinical Pilates exercise program, the patients will be trained on Pilates exercises and postures. During training, the patients will be taught how to create lumbopelvic stability (core stabilization), which is the basis for Pilates exercises, and spinal stabilization and appropriate posture techniques.

As a result of the research, the data will be analyzed to determine which treatment method is more effective in lymphedematous individuals.