3D Bioprinted Models for Predicting Chemotherapy Response in Colorectal Cancer With/Without Liver Metastases
The therapeutic regimens of adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy for colorectal cancer (CRC) remain largely relied on clinical experience, and thus preclinical models are needed to guide individualized medicine. The investigators are going to establish 3D bioprinted CRC models and organoids from surgically resected tumor tissues of CRC patients with or without liver metastases. In vitro 3D models and organoids will be treated with the same chemotherapy drugs with the corresponding patients from whom the models are derived. The sensitivity of chemotherapy drugs will be tested in these two types of in vitro models, and the actual response to chemotherapy in patients will be evaluated. The predictive ability of 3D models for chemotherapy sensitivity in CRC patients will be compared with that of the organoids. This observational study will validate the potential value of 3D bioprinted tumor models in predicting the response to chemotherapy in CRC.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastasis
PROCEDURE: surgical resection|OTHER: adjuvant chemotherapy|OTHER: neoadjuvant therapy
Response of 3D tumor models/organoids to the same chemotherapy drugs as the corresponding patients., The investigators will establish and culture 3D colorectal cancer models and organoids. The 3D models and organoids will be treated with the same chemotherapy drugs as the corresponding patients. The viability of the 3D tumor models and organoids will be observed after treatment and the IC50 of each drug will be calculated. The correlation of 3D model/organoid sensitivity and the patient response will be analyzed., 2021.03-2021.12
Response of the colorectal cancer patients to neoadjuvant chemotherapy., For patients who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy before surgery, the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy will be evaluated according to clinical imaging results and the RECIST scores., 2021.03-2022.03
Response of the colorectal cancer patients to adjuvant chemotherapy., The response to adjuvant chemotherapy will be evaluated according to disease free survival (DFS). Regular follow-ups will be conducted, and DFS is difined as the interval between the date of surgery and the date of last follow-up or recurrence/progression., 2021.03-2023.12
The therapeutic regimens of adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherapy for colorectal cancer (CRC) remain largely relied on clinical experience, and thus preclinical models are needed to guide individualized medicine. The investigators are going to establish 3D bioprinted CRC models and organoids from surgically resected tumor tissues of CRC patients with or without liver metastases. In vitro 3D models and organoids will be treated with the same chemotherapy drugs with the corresponding patients from whom the models are derived. The sensitivity of chemotherapy drugs will be tested in these two types of in vitro models, and the actual response to chemotherapy in patients will be evaluated. The predictive ability of 3D models for chemotherapy sensitivity in CRC patients will be compared with that of the organoids. This observational study will validate the potential value of 3D bioprinted tumor models in predicting the response to chemotherapy in CRC.