Prostate Nutrition and Exercise STudy (ProNEST)
The purpose of this study is to test the feasibility of nutrition and exercise counseling program for reducing the incidence of metabolic syndrome in prostate cancer patients on Androgen Deprivation Therapy.
Metabolic Syndrome|Prostate Cancer|Diet Modification
BEHAVIORAL: diet and exercise guidance and modifications
Incidence of metabolic syndrome in Arm A as compared to Arm B at 12 months, Metabolic syndrome will be defined by the following measurements: weight circumference, BMI, blood tests (Fasting glucose, Hemoglobin A1c, Lipid Panel, LDH and blood pressure), blood pressure. The information will be collected from medical records of standard of care visits, 12 months
Quality of life assessment, Quality of life assessed by the FACT-P (version 4) questionnaire, 24 months|Patient activity, Patient activity using wearable tracking devices and questionnaire, 24 months|Physical function and performance, Performance testing will be done using the following measure: short physical performance battery of balance, gait speed measuring physical function, and chair stand measuring lower body muscular endurance; an arm curl test measuring upper body muscular endurance, back scratch test measuring upper body flexibility, and chair sit-and-reach test measuring lower body flexibility. Anthropometric measurements will be completed measuring body mass index, abdominal girth with measuring tape., 24 months|Body composition, Body composition with a bioelectrical impedance analyzer. Body fat composition using skin calipers will also be measured, 24 months|Adherence to treatment plan, Adherence to treatment plan by diet diary, pedometer and activity journal, 24 months
This is a pilot study to evaluate the role of dietary modifications and exercise in patients started on ADT for preventing and or delaying metabolic syndrome in this aging population. The study will employ a randomized, 2-arm wait-control design. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio into two arms: dietary modifications and exercise counseling (Arm A) or standard of care (Arm B). The duration of intervention in Arm A will be 24 months. At 12 months, participants in Arm B will be offered the same intervention that Arm A received during months 1-12. Medical records will be accessed up to 5 years for standard of care visits. The goal of this project is to generate preliminary data on the feasibility of applying such an intervention on a much bigger population with approximately 100 subjects on each arm. For this pilot, we aim to randomize 20 patients to each arm. The principal investigator or co-investigators who are evaluating the patient will perform the randomization since this is an open-label, non-therapeutic study. The ADT received by patients on both arms is considered standard of care therapy for their prostate cancer.