Dose Optimized BNCT for Head and Neck Cancer
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety of applying BNCT with the dose optimization in patients with recurrent head and neck cancer. The main questions it aims to answer are:

- Dose optimized BNCT are conducted safety in these patients. Participants will receive dose optimized BNCT regulated as 12, 15, 18 Gy-Eq of the mucosal dose.
Head and Neck Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: Accelerator-based BNCT with borofalan(10B)
Adverse events (Absence and presence of serious adverse events), Grade 3 or higher adverse events as evaluated in CTCAEv5.1 Number of participants with severe adverse events due to an excess of tissue tolerance dose, Within 90days after the completion of BNCT
Objective response rate: ORR, ORR within 90 days after the completion of BNCT is evaluated using RECIST guidelines (version 1.1).

ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with CR and PR in the target lesions among all eligible subjects., Within 90 days after the completion of BNCT|Duration of Response, The duration of the response is the time from the confirmed achievement of CR or PR (whichever is recorded first) to the date of initial objectively confirmed recurrence or exacerbation., Within 2 years after the completion of BNCT|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR is evaluated using RECIST guidelines (version 1.1). DCR is defined as the proportion of subjects with CR, PR, or SD in the target lesions among all eligible subjects., Within 90 days after the completion of BNCT|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the day of the completion of BNCT to death due to all causes. The survey period will be up to the completion of the follow-up survey for all subjects., Within 2 years after the completion of BNCT or up to the end of this study|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the day of the completion of BNCT to the date of initial confirmed PD. The survey period will be up to the completion of the follow-up survey for all subjects., Within 2 years after the completion of BNCT or up to the end of this study|Late Adverse Events, The late Adverse Events are defined as the medical occurrence of the study from the treatment periods to the follow-up periods., From 90 days to 2 years after the completion of BNCT|Quality of life (QOL) Score Based on EORTC QLQ C30 and H&N35., QOL score is assessed with EORTC QLQ C30 and H\&N35 in the follow-up period. Results are scored as a specified manner by EORTC and changes in scores during the follow up period are evaluated, Within 2 years after the completion of BNCT or up to the end of this study|Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY), QOL and life year are multiplied to calculate the QALY. QOL score based on EQ-5D-5L in Japanese version., Within 2 years after the completion of BNCT or up to the end of this study
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety of applying BNCT with the dose optimization in patients with recurrent head and neck cancer. The main questions it aims to answer are:

- Dose optimized BNCT are conducted safety in these patients. Participants will receive dose optimized BNCT regulated as 12, 15, 18 Gy-Eq of the mucosal dose.