Shared Meditation Involving People With Cancer, Carers and Third Parties
Although the benefits of meditation are increasingly well documented, few hospitals offer this integrative approach in their supportive cancer care. Meditation is sometimes provided, but its potential benefits remain insufficiently evaluated.

This project is based on the hypothesis that there could be a benefit in meditating together.
Patients With Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Shared meditation|BEHAVIORAL: Meditation with patients oly
To assess the possible added value for patients (target population) of a meditation programme shared between patients, carers and third parties, compared with the same meditation programme conducted solely for patients., Changes in self-efficacy scores according to the Generalized Self Efficacy Scale \[min 10; max 40\], measured at the end of the meditation programme (after the 12 weekly sessions) compared with the measurement at inclusion
The main aims of this randomised study are to improve well-being, strengthen links between carers, patients and third parties and raise awareness of the importance of living together better by offering meditation as a shared activity. The expected benefits of meditation therefore primarily concern the relief of psychological suffering. Promoting better understanding between carers and patients, and looking at oneself and others in a different way are experiences that aim to encourage exchanges and interactions between populations. For cancer patients (the target population), pain and other symptoms associated with the disease and its treatment will be better managed.

The pain experienced by carers, which is essentially linked to professional overwork and contact with illness, will be considered and managed through meditation, resulting in benefits for carers and their way of interacting with their patients.

The expected collective benefit is to develop and better live together our interdependence and humanity, by recognising suffering as a shared characteristic, despite our specific problems (as patients, carers or third parties).

The overall aim is to alleviate suffering, which is an integral part of the human experience, by cultivating our common humanity.