MLN8237 for Treatment of Participants With Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Peritoneal Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the anti-tumour activity of alisertib (MLN8237) in the treatment of participants with platinum-refractory or platinum-resistant epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinomas.
Ovarian Carcinoma
DRUG: Alisertib
Combined Best Overall Response Rate Based on Investigator Assessment, Combined objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) as assessed by the investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria 1.1 or response by Cancer antigen (CA) 125 criteria. According to RECIST: CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions and PR is defined as 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. CA 125 response criteria is defined as either: A 50% decrease from 2 initially elevated samples; the sample demonstrating the 50% decrease must have been confirmed by a fourth sample 28 days later (a total of 4 samples required) or A serial decrease of \> 75% over 3 samples; the third sample was to be obtained 28 days after the second (a total of 3 samples required)., Every 2 cycles up to 12 months until progressive disease (PD); Participants who discontinue study drug before PD: Follow-Up (FU)-every 12 weeks up to 12 months until PD/other cancer therapy; CA 125 Day 1 of cycle, End of Treatment and FU (Up to 22 Months)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time in days from the date of first study drug administration to the date of first documented Progressive Disease (PD) or death. PD is defined as 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. CA 125 progression for participants with normal CA 125 levels is defined as a CA 125 level \> 2 times the upper limit of normal and for participants with elevated values during the trial, is defined as a CA 125 level greater than 2 times the nadir value of CA 125. For a participant who has not progressed and has not died, PFS is censored at the last response assessment that is stable disease (SD) or better., Every 2 cycles up to 12 months until PD; Participants who discontinue study drug before PD: FU - every 12 weeks up to 12 months until PD/other cancer therapy; CA 125 Day 1 of cycle, End of Treatment and FU (Up to 22 Months)|Duration Of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a confirmed response to the date of first documented PD. PD is defined as 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Every 2 cycles up to 12 months until PD; Participants who discontinue study drug before PD: FU - every 12 weeks up to 12 months until PD/other cancer therapy; CA 125 Day 1 of cycle, End of Treatment and FU (Up to 22 Months)|Time To Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time in days from the date of first study drug administration to the date of first documentation of PD. PD is defined as 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Every 2 cycles up to 12 months until PD; Participants who discontinue study drug before PD: FU - every 12 weeks up to 12 months until PD/other cancer therapy; CA 125 Day 1 of cycle, End of Treatment and FU (Up to 22 Months)|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate is defined as the percentage of participants with response and stable disease (SD), where in order for SD to qualify as having clinical benefit, there must be no progression of neoplastic disease for at least 4 treatment cycles., Every 2 cycles up to 12 months until PD; Participants who discontinue study drug before PD: FU - every 12 weeks up to 12 months until PD/other cancer therapy; CA 125 Day 1 of cycle, End of Treatment and FU (Up to 22 Months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. A Serious Adverse Event (SAE) A serious is any experience that suggests a significant hazard, contraindication, side effect or precaution that: results in death, is life-threatening, required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is medically significant. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., First dose to 30 days past last dose (Up to 18.9 Months)|Number of Participants With Abnormal Vital Signs Reported as Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Vital signs included blood pressure, pulse rate, and oral temperature collected throughout the study. . A treatment-emergent adverse event is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., Baseline, Cycle 1 Days 8 and 15, then Day 1 of every cycle (21 days), End of Treatment, End of Study/FU every 12 weeks for up to 12 months (Up to 22 Months)|Number of Participants With Abnormal Laboratory Values Reported as Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Laboratory tests included Hematology and Chemistry. Abnormal laboratory value were assessed as an AE if the value leads to discontinuation or delay in treatment, dose modification, therapeutic intervention, or is considered by the investigator to be a clinically significant change from baseline. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug., Baseline, Cycle 1 Days 8 and 15, then Every cycle Days 1, 8 and 15 to End of Treatment Up to 18.0 Months
The drug being tested in this study is called alisertib (MLN8237). Alisertib is being tested to treat people who have platinum-refractory or platinum-resistant epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma. This study looked at the antitumor activity by response rate who would take alisertib.

The study enrolled 31 patients. Participants were categorized as per the disease state into 2 categories, refractory and resistant. Participants received:

• Alisertib 50 mg

All participants took alisertib 50 mg capsules every 12 hours each day for 7 days followed by a 14-day rest period in a 21-day cycle (up to 26 cycles).

This multi-center trial was conducted in France, Poland and the United States. The overall time to participate in this study was 12 months, unless it is determined that a participant would benefit from continued therapy beyond 12 months. Participants made multiple visits to the clinic, and were contacted up to a maximum of every 12 weeks up to 12 months after last dose of study drug for follow-up assessments.