Evaluation of Clinical Efficacy and Safety of Nuvastatic in Cancer Asthenia
Nuvastatic TM (C5OSEW5050ESA)is a special formulation derived from the standardized extract of O. stamineus leaves developed by Natureceuticals Sdn. Bhd. The extract is prepared from meticulous extraction using sophisticated phytochemical techniques, where the particular phytopharmaceuticals (active ingredients) are being concentrated to achieve the desired therapeutic efficacy. In the proposed human study, it is anticipated that administering dietary supplement of standardized O. stamineus rosmarinic acid-enriched Nuvastatic TM (C5OSEW5050ESA) 1000 mg (3 times a day), can ameliorate fatigue in cancer patients. This is based on scientific studies that support its ability in reducing oxidative damage and restore mitochondrial and other cellular functions involved in cellular energy production. It is further hypothesized that the anti-inflammatory, antinociceptive anti-oxidant, and neuroprotective properties of the active compound rosmarinic acid may also potentially assist in pain control, sleep loss, lethargy and other symptoms strongly associated with cancer-related fatigue.
Asthenia|Cancer
OTHER: Nuvastatic TM (C5OSEW5050ESA) 1000 mg
To evaluate efficacy of CANSSUFIVE® Nuvastatic (C5OSEW5050ESA) in Improving Fatigue in Patients with Solid Stage I - IV Tumors., Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Fatigue FACIT-F scale as primary endpoint. FACIT-Fatigue Scale: (0 = not at all; 1 = a little bit; 2 = somewhat; 3 = quite a bit; and 4 = very much), Measured at baseline (Visit 2) (week 2)|To evaluate efficacy of CANSSUFIVE® Nuvastatic (C5OSEW5050ESA) in Improving Fatigue in Patients with Solid Stage I - IV Tumors., Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Fatigue FACIT-F scale as primary endpoint. FACIT-Fatigue Scale: (0 = not at all; 1 = a little bit; 2 = somewhat; 3 = quite a bit; and 4 = very much), Measured at Visit 3 (week 3)|To evaluate efficacy of CANSSUFIVE® Nuvastatic (C5OSEW5050ESA) in Improving Fatigue in Patients with Solid Stage I - IV Tumors., Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Fatigue FACIT-F scale as primary endpoint. FACIT-Fatigue Scale: (0 = not at all; 1 = a little bit; 2 = somewhat; 3 = quite a bit; and 4 = very much), Measured at Visit 6 (week 6)|To evaluate efficacy of CANSSUFIVE® Nuvastatic (C5OSEW5050ESA) in Improving Fatigue in Patients with Solid Stage I - IV Tumors., Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Fatigue FACIT-F scale as primary endpoint. FACIT-Fatigue Scale: (0 = not at all; 1 = a little bit; 2 = somewhat; 3 = quite a bit; and 4 = very much), Measured at Visit 9 (week 9)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CANSSUFIVE® Nuvastatic (C5OSEW5050ESA) in Patients with Solid Stage I - IV Tumors., Visual Analogue fatigue scale (VAFS) as primary endpoint. Fatigue with 0 being worst and 10 being normal., Measured at baseline (Visit 2) (week 2)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CANSSUFIVE® Nuvastatic (C5OSEW5050ESA) in Patients with Solid Stage I - IV Tumors., Visual Analogue fatigue scale (VAFS) as primary endpoint. Fatigue with 0 being worst and 10 being normal., Measured at Visit 3 (week 3)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CANSSUFIVE® Nuvastatic (C5OSEW5050ESA) in Patients with Solid Stage I - IV Tumors., Visual Analogue fatigue scale (VAFS) as primary endpoint. Fatigue with 0 being worst and 10 being normal., Measured at Visit 6 (week 6)|To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CANSSUFIVE® Nuvastatic (C5OSEW5050ESA) in Patients with Solid Stage I - IV Tumors., Visual Analogue fatigue scale (VAFS) as primary endpoint. Fatigue with 0 being worst and 10 being normal., Measured at Visit 9 (week 9)
Quality of Life (QoL), Overall QoL improvement using EORTC-QLQ-C30. Scale 1 (worse) to 10 (better)., Measured at baseline (visit 2) (week 2), visit 3 (week 3), visit 4 (week 6), and visit 5 (week 9).|Fatigue Severity Scale, Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS). Scale ranging from 1 ("strongly disagree") to 7 ("strongly agree")., Measured at baseline (visit 2) (week 2), visit 3 (week 3), visit 4 (week 6), and visit 5 (week 9).|Brief Fatigue Inventory, Brief Fatigue Inventory. 11-point rating scale developed to assess subjective fatigue. Fatigue severity from 0, indicating "no fatigue," to 10, indicating "as bad as you can imagine," at current, usual, and worst levels., Measured at baseline (visit 2) (week 2), visit 3 (week 3), visit 4 (week 6), and visit 5 (week 9).|Vitality subscale of the Medical Outcome Scale Short Form-36 (SF-36), Vitality subscale of the Medical Outcome Scale Short Form-36 (SF-36). Scale ranging from 0 (worst possible health state) to 100 (best possible health state)., Measured at baseline (visit 2) (week 2), visit 3 (week 3), visit 4 (week 6), and visit 5 (week 9).|F2-isoprostane, urinary F2-isoprostane as a biomarker for fatigue reduction, Measured at baseline (visit 2) (week 2), visit 3 (week 3), visit 4 (week 6), and visit 5 (week 9).|The adverse events, The occurrence and severity of adverse effects are measured by a severity score scale and system organ class (gastrointestinal disorders, general disorders, and administration site conditions, nervous system disorders) in treatment vs placebo group., During 9 weeks intervention and at end of intervation on 9th week.
All stage I-IV solid tumors patients are planned to receive or already receiving chemotherapy or radiotherapy including palliative chemotherapy and radiotherapy meeting the eligibility criteria will be consented and pre-screened for fatigue using Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI). Subjects will be administered a BFI questionnaire prior to the commencement of their chemotherapy (preferably 1st chemotherapy cycle) or radiotherapy treatment.

Patients will be assessed again using the BFI questionnaire on day 1 of their next chemotherapy cycle or the following week of radiotherapy. Patients will not be considered for study enrolment if the fatigue severity does not increase by at least one score from the previous assessment during the pre-screening. Those with newly developed fatigue or worsening of their fatigue score (i.e. from moderate to severe, mild to moderate, or mild to severe) will be consented for study enrolment. The subject who signed informed consent, pre-screened and is subsequently eligible for study enrolment/randomization will be enrolled into either Nuvastatic TM or Placebo group