Donor Atorvastatin Treatment for Preventing Severe Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease in Patients Undergoing Myeloablative Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation
This phase II trial studies donor atorvastatin treatment for the prevention of severe acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in patients undergoing myeloablative peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation. Giving chemotherapy and total-body irradiation (TBI) before a donor PBSC transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It may also prevent the patient's immune system reject the donor's stem cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving atorvastatin to the donor before transplant may prevent this from happening.
Malignant Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Atorvastatin Calcium|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation
Grade 3-4 Acute GVHD, Cumulative incidence rate of grade 3-4 acute GVHD with death as a completing risk, assessed at day 100 in the patients/recipients., First 100 days after transplant
Chronic Extensive GVHD, Cumulative incidence rate of chronic extensive GVHD with death as a competing risk, assessed at 2 years in the patients/recipients., 2 years post transplant|Disease-free Survival, Evaluated as Kaplan-Meier estimate in the patients/recipients., 1 year after transplant|Grades II-IV Acute GVHD, Cumulative incidence rate of grades II-IV acute GVHD with death as a competing risk, assessed at 100 days in the patients/recipients., First 100 days after transplant|Non-relapse Mortality, Cumulative incidence rate of non-relapse mortalities, assessed at day 100 in the patients/recipients., At day 100|Non-relapse Mortality, Cumulative incidence rate of non-relapse mortalities, assessed at one year in the patients/recipients., At 1 year after HCT|Overall Survival, Determined and presented as Kaplan-Meier estimates, assessed at 1 year in the patients/recipients., 1 year after transplant|Proportion of Donors Who Have to Discontinue Atorvastatin Because of Toxicity, Until completion of stem cell collection (on average 14 days)|Proportion of Patients Requiring Secondary Systemic Immunosuppressive Therapy, First 100 days after transplant|Recurrent or Progressive Malignancy, Cumulative incidence rate of recurrent or progressive malignancy with death as a competing risk, assessed at 3 years in the patients/recipients., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether 2 weeks of donor statin treatment reduces the risk of severe acute GVHD.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether 2 weeks of statin treatment of normal PBSC donors is feasible, tolerable and safe.

OUTLINE:

Donors receive atorvastatin orally (PO) beginning on day -14 and continuing until the last day of stem cell collection.