OSI-906 With Gemcitabine and Erlotinib for Metastatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas
OSI-906 is a new drug that may stop cancer cells from growing abnormally. This drug has been used in other research studies and information from those suggests that OSI-906 may help block cell receptors involved in tumor growth.

Gemcitabine and erlotinib are used as standard treatment for pancreatic cancer. In this research study, the investigators are looking for the highest dose of OSI-906 that can be given safely in combination with gemcitabine and erlotinib. This dose will then be given together with gemcitabine and erlotinib to a further group of patients with pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer, Metastatic
DRUG: Gemcitabine, Erlotinib, OSI-906|DRUG: Gemcitabine, Erlotinib
Number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability, Phase I study to assess the safety, tolerability and maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of OSI-906 administered in combination with gemcitabine and erlotinib is patients with metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, 1 years|Survival among patients receiving gemcitabine + erlotinib versus gemcitabine + erlotinib + OSI-906, Phase II trial to assess overall survival associated with OSI-906, gemcitabine and erlotinib compared with gemcitabine and erlotinib alone in patients with previous untreated metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, 2 years
Progression-free survival among patients receiving gemcitabine + erlotinib vs. gemcitabine + erlotinib + OSI-906, To assess progression-free survival associated with OSI-906, gemcitabine and erlotinib compared to gemcitabine and erlotinib alone in patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, 2 years|Tumor response rate among patients receiving gemcitabine + erlotinib versus gemcitabine + erlotinib + OSI-906, To assess tumor response rate associated with OSI-906, gemcitabine and erlotinib compared to gemcitabine and erlotinib alone in patients with previously untreated metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, 2 years
This study will be conducted in two parts: a phase I study and a phase II study. In both instances, a treatment cycle is 28 days (4 weeks). Subjects will take OSI-906 by mouth, twice a day, every day. Subjects will receive gemcitabine through an IV in clinic over 30 minutes on days 1, 8 and 15 of each 28-day cycle. Subjects will take erlotinib by mouth, once a day, every day.

At every visit subjects will have a physical exam and blood tests. An EKG will be done on days 1, 8 and 15 of cycle 1 and on day 1 of all subsequent cycles. A CT scan will be done every 2 cycles (8 weeks).

Subjects will complete a daily drug diary and perform glucose monitoring (finger stick) once daily at home.