Concurrent Chemotherapy in Intermediate Risk Patients Treated With Intensity-modulated Radiotherapy
Currently, concurrent chemoradiotherapy with/without sequential chemotherapy is the standard treatment modality for intermediate risk NPC (stage II and T3N0M0) according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guideline. However these recommendations were based on the evidence in the two-dimensional conventional radiotherapy (2DCRT) era. The introduction of intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) in NPC treatment has brought substantial better treatment outcomes than 2DCRT. It has been questioned whether additional concurrent chemotherapy is still necessary for intermediate risk NPC within the excellent framework of IMRT. hus, we jointly conduct the first non-inferior randomized trial to determine the value of concurrent chemotherapy with cisplatin for intermediate risk NPC patients treated with IMRT. Given the results of clinical studies mentioned above, we decide to adopt the concurrent regimen to be cisplatin 100 mg/m2 on day 1, 22, 43
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: IMRT
Failure-free survival, Failure-free survival rate is calculated from the date of randomization to the date of treatment failure or death from any cause, whichever is first., 3 Year
Overall survival, Overall survival is calculated from randomization to death from any cause, 3 Year|Locoregional failure-free survival, Locoregional failure-free survival is calculated from randomization to the first locoregional failure., 3 Year|Distant failure-free survival, Distant failure-free survival is calculated from randomization to the first remote failure., 3 Year|Number of participants with adverse events, Incidence of acute and late toxicity, 3 Year
Patients Patients with non-keratinizing NPC T1-2N1M0/T2-3N0M0 (UICC/AJCC 7th edition) are randomly assigned to receive CCRT or RT alone. Patients in CCRT group receive cisplatin 100 mg/m² every 3 weeks for 3 cycles, concurrently with intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). IMRT is given as 2.0-2.30 Gy per fraction with five daily fractions per week for 6-7 weeks to a total dose of 66 Gy or greater to the primary tumor. Our primary endpoint is failure-free survival(FFS). Secondary end points include overall survival (OS), locoregional failure-free survival (LR-FFS), distant failure-free survival (D-FFS) rates and toxic effects. All efficacy analyses are conducted in the intention-to-treat population, and the safety population include only patients who receive their randomly assigned treatment.