Long-term Outcomes of Breast Cancer Patients After Wound Infiltration Analgesia
In the study that was conducted from 05.01.2009 - 31.12.2012. 120 patients were examined. By drawing random numbers, the patients were randomized into 3 groups for postoperative analgesia:

1. Diclofenac 2 mg/kg/day - control,
2. Wound infiltration via wound catheter with catheter tip placed in the axilla, 3\*0.5 mg/kg 0.5% levobupivacaine bolus dose.
3. 0.05 mg/kg/h 0.5% levobupivacaine continuously via wound infiltration catheter with catheter tip placed in the axilla. The drug was delivered using a PCA pump for 24 hours.

The aim was to compare early postoperative outcomes - pain control on a visual analog scale of 1-10, hand grip strength, and quality of life after surgery and after 1 year.

Long-term survival was examined subsequently, from the hospital register.
Postoperative Analgesia|Hand Strength|Health Related Quality of Life|Chronic Shoulder Pain|Breast Cancer Female|Surgical Wound Infiltration|Lymph Node Dissection
DRUG: Diclofenac Sodium|DRUG: Levobupivacaine bolus analgesia|DRUG: Levobupivacaine PCA group
Postoperative analgesia, Pain after mastectomy was evaluated by self-reports from patients using a Visual Analog Scale (VAS) from 0 - no pain up to 10 - the worst pain imaginable., from 1-4 days postoperative, day of surgery is day 1|Hand grip strength, Hand grip strength (HGS) was measured preoperatively, 4 days after surgery and at follow-up after 1 year, using a handheld dynamometer (Dynatest®, Rud. Reister Gmbh\&CaKG, Jungingen, Germany) and expressed in bars. Mean expected normal values for female patients are in the range between 0.4-0.6 bar., Before surgery, on day 4 after surgery, and one year after surgery|Shoulder disability, Shoulder pain was assessed using the Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (SDQ), and shoulder pain was assessed in 16 typical situations such as writing, opening a door, sleeping on the operated side, or carrying a load. The maximal score was all positive ( 16 in 16, 100%), suggesting that pain was present in all 16 clinical situations, and the minimum score is 0 (0 positive responses /16 situations, 0% - no disability in any situation., Before surgery and after one year at surgical control.|Health related quality of life, Health-related quality of life was assessed using the Croatian version of the SF-36 questionnaire. There were eight domains examined: physical health, role limitation due to physical problems, pain, general health perception, energy / vitality, social functioning, limitations due to emotional problems, and general mental health.

This instrument summarizes health perception from the patient's perspective. SF-36 scores range from 0 (worst) to 100 (best) (5)., Before surgery and after one year at surgical control.
Long-term survival - 5 years after surgery, Survival after 5 years from the surgery will be checked through the hospital registry, or for those who died through the official population records and death registers of the Republic of Croatia. Patients' outcomes are dichotomous and are presented as alive or dead 5 years after surgery., Five years after surgery|Long term survival - 10 years after surgery, Survival after 10 years from the surgery will be checked through the hospital registry, or for those who died through the official population records and death registers of the Republic of Croatia. Patients' outcomes are dichotomous and are presented as alive or dead 10 years after surgery., Ten years after surgery until data were collected
Before the operation, the patients were randomized into 3 groups: the first group received diclofenac for postoperative analgesia. On the first day, they received 2 x 75 mg intravenously, and then 3 x 50 mg tablets. For the wound infiltration with levobupivacaine, a perforated catheter was placed at the end of the surgical procedure by the surgeon in both groups of patients. The tip of the catheter was in the axillary fossa, where the dissection was performed. Patients in the levobupivacaine bolus group (N=39) received three times a day bolus doses of 0.5 mg/kg 0.5% levobupivacaine (Chirocaine, Abbot S.p.A., Latina, Italy) through the catheter. The dose of levobupivacaine was prescribed by the doctor, and the drug was delivered by the nurse. In levobupivacaine, PCA group (N=40) women had the same catheter placed, but received 0.05 mg/kg/h 0.5% levobupivacaine continuously for 24 hours via a catheter placed in the axilla. Levobupivacaine was delivered by PCA pump (CADD - Legacy® PCA Pump, Model 6300, Smiths Medical MD, Inc., St. Paul, USA). These patients were allowed to add a dose of 7.5 mg 0.5% levobupivacaine in case of pain by pressing the patient's button on the PCA pump, with a lock-out period of 4 hours. Postoperative pain was measured with a visual analog scale (VAS). All patients had the option of additional analgesia, using NSAIDs for pain \<4 or meperidine for VAS \>4. After the surgery, the patients received oncological chemoradiotherapy, depending on the type and stage of cancer.