Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Pemigatinib in Participants With Relapsed or Refractory Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With an FGFR Alteration
This is an open-label, single arm study to study the safety, efficacy and tolerability of Pemigatinib when used on participants with squamous or nonsquamous NSCLC with a documented FGFR1-3 mutations or fusions/rearrangement who have progressed on prior therapies and have no available standard treatment options
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
DRUG: Pemigatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR) in Cohort A, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Response was determined by an Independent Central Radiology (ICR) review. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of any new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in the short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR: complete disappearance or at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters, no new lesions, and no progression of non-target lesions., up to 267 days
ORR in Cohort B, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a CR or PR based on RECIST v1.1. Response was determined by an ICR review. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of any new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in the short axis to \<10 mm. PR: complete disappearance or at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters, no new lesions, and no progression of non-target lesions., up to 80 days|Progression-free Survival (PFS) in Cohort A, PFS was defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment until progressive disease (PD) (according to RECIST v1.1 as assessed by an ICR review) or death, whichever occurred first. PD was defined as the progression of a target or non-target lesion or presence of a new lesion., up to 267 days|Duration of Response (DOR) in Cohort A, DOR was defined as the time from the date of the first CR or PR until the date of the first PD (according to RECIST v1.1 as assessed by an ICR review) or death, whichever occurred first. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of any new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in the short axis to \<10 mm. PR: complete disappearance or at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters, no new lesions, and no progression of non-target lesions. PD: progression of a target or non-target lesion or presence of a new lesion., up to 182 days|Overall Survival (OS) in Cohort A, OS was defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to death of any cause., up to 267 days|Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not it was considered drug-related. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable or unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study drug. A TEAE was defined as an AE that was reported for the first time or the worsening of a pre-existing event after the first dose of pemigatinib and within 30 days of the last dose of pemigatinib., up to 302 days|Number of Participants With Any Treatment-related TEAE According to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not it was considered drug-related. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable or unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study drug. A TEAE was defined as an AE that was reported for the first time or the worsening of a pre-existing event after the first dose of pemigatinib and within 30 days of the last dose of pemigatinib. The investigator assessed the relationship between study drug and each occurrence of each AE/serious adverse event., up to 302 days
This is an open-label, single arm study to study the safety, efficacy and tolerability of Pemigatinib when used on participants with squamous or nonsquamous NSCLC with a documented FGFR1-3 mutations or fusions/rearrangement who have progressed on prior therapies and have no available standard treatment options