Daily vs. Non-Daily SBRT for NSCLC
The purpose of this study is to determine if stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) on non-consecutive days will increase the chances of curing non-small cell lung cancer when compared to daily treatment.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Daily Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy|RADIATION: Non-Daily Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy
Two-year control measured by CT (computerized tomography) scan, Control defined as Less than 20% increase in the largest dimension of treated tumor measurable by CT, Two years|Two year control measured by PET (positron emission tomography) scan, Control defined as PET imaging with uptake of a similar intensity as the pretreatment staging PET, Two years
Document acute and late toxicity related to treatment, This will be assessed using the most recent version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., 2 years|Document patient-reported quality of life before, during, and after treatment, This will be done using quality of life surveys, 2 years|Evaluate circulating tumor DNA, This will be done by collecting blood prior to, during, and after treatment, 2 years|Overall Survival, Tracked through patient follow up, 2 years|Progression Free Survival, Tracked through patient follow up, 2 years
The purpose of this study is to determine if treatment with stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) on non-consecutive days will improve the chance of curing non-small cell lung cancer compared to treatment with SBRT on consecutive days. In either case, the dose of radiation is the same. Non-consecutive treatments will be at least 40 hours apart and no more than 100 hours apart. The total course of treatment will be 8-12 days. Consecutive treatments will be daily over 4-5 days within one calendar week. The total course of treatment will be 4-5 days.

The study team will assess if DNA from the tumor can be found in the blood to determine which patients respond quickest to radiotherapy. These results will not be made available to participants and will not change treatment.