Safety Study With the Antibody, cG250, and Isotope, 124-Iodine, to Diagnose Patients With Renal Masses.
The purpose of this study is to see if an antibody (cG250) attached to a radioactive substance (Iodine-124) safely detects clear cell renal cancer in patients with kidney tumors scheduled for surgery.
Cancer of Kidney|Kidney Cancer|Renal Cancer|Neoplasms, Kidney|Renal Neoplasms|Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC)|Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: 124-Iodine-cG250 (124I-cG250)
Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of 124I-cG250 Based on Positron-Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) Imaging in the Detection of Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) Compared to Pathology of Tumor Mass at Surgical Resection., Patients were listed as PET-positive based on a tumor to nontumor radioactive uptake ratio of \> 3 and PET-negative if less than or equal to 3.

The resected renal mass (tumor) was subjected to pathological evaluation, and a diagnosis of clear cell RCC or non-clear cell RCC was made.

PPV is the proportion of patients with a positive PET scan who actually have the disease based on pathology. Patients who have a positive PET scan on imaging and clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered true-positives. Patients who have negative PET scans on imaging and non-clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered true-negatives. Patients with positive PET scans on imaging and non-clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered false positives and those with clear cell RCC on pathology but negative PET scans on imaging will be considered false negatives., 8 days
Negative Predictive Value (NPV) of 124I-cG250 Based on Positron-Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) Imaging in the Detection of Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) Compared to Pathology of Tumor Mass at Surgical Resection., Patients were listed as PET-positive based on a tumor to nontumor radioactive uptake ratio of \> 3 and PET-negative if less than or equal to 3.

The resected renal mass (tumor) was subjected to pathological evaluation, and a diagnosis of clear cell RCC or non-clear cell RCC was made.

NPV is the ratio of participants who do not have clear cell RCC to all those who had negative PET scans.

Patients who have a positive PET scan on imaging and clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered true-positives. Patients who have a negative PET scan on imaging and do not have clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered true-negatives. Patients with a positive PET scan on imaging and do not have clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered false positives and those with clear cell RCC on pathology but negative PET scans on imaging will be considered false negatives., 8 days|Sensitivity of 124I-cG250 Based on Positron-Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) Imaging in the Detection of Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) Compared to Pathology of Tumor Mass at Surgical Resection., Patients were listed as PET-positive based on a tumor to nontumor radioactive uptake ratio of \> 3 and PET-negative if less than or equal to 3.

The resected renal mass (tumor) was subjected to pathological evaluation, and a diagnosis of clear cell RCC or non-clear cell RCC was made.

Sensitivity is defined as the ratio of the proportion of the patients who have clear cell RCC based on pathology and whose PET scans are positive over the number of patients with clear cell RCC. Patients who have a positive PET scan on imaging and clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered true-positives. Patients who have a negative PET scan on imaging and do not have clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered true-negatives. Patients with a positive PET scan on imaging and do not have clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered false positives and those with clear cell RCC on pathology but negative PET scans on imaging will be considered false negatives., 8 days|Specificity of 124I-cG250 Based on Positron-Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) Imaging in the Detection of Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) Compared to Pathology of Tumor Mass at Surgical Resection., Patients were listed as PET-positive based on a tumor to nontumor radioactive uptake ratio of \> 3 and PET-negative if less than or equal to 3.

The resected renal mass (tumor) was subjected to pathological evaluation, and a diagnosis of clear cell RCC or non-clear cell RCC was made.

Specificity is defined as the number of patients with non-clear cell RCC correctly classified divided by all non-clear cell RCC patients.

Patients who have a positive PET scan on imaging and clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered a true-positive. Patients who have a negative PET scan on imaging and do not have clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered true negatives. Patients with a positive PET scan on imaging and do not have clear cell RCC on pathology will be considered false positives and those with clear cell RCC on pathology but negative PET scans on imaging will be considered false negatives., 8 days
Antibodies are proteins made by the immune system. They fight things that the body sees as foreign, such as bacteria and viruses. The body can also see cancer cells as foreign. When the body sees a foreign invader, it sends out antibodies that tag the invader. Once this happens, the immune system can work to destroy whatever the antibody has tagged.

Monoclonal antibodies are antibodies that can be made in the lab. They tag a portion of a cancer cell. Early monoclonal antibodies were made from antibodies grown in mice. They caused an antibody response in humans after one dose. Now they are more like human antibodies, and thus, do not produce the same reactions on repeated doses. These are called chimeric antibodies. The antibody we will use in this study is called chimeric G250 (cG250).

Recent research has shown that some antibodies can attach themselves to cancer cells, and that they bind to very few normal cells. This could help cancer treatment in two ways. One is that the body's own immune system might work to destroy tagged cancer cells. The other is that we can attach chemotherapy drugs or radioactive chemicals to the antibodies. These can then deliver treatment when the antibodies attach to the cancer cells.

This study is being done to test the tagging ability of cG250 to cancer cells. After you receive cG250, you will have a scan. The picture the scan produces will show where the antibody has collected inside the body. From this, it is possible to measure how well cG250 can detect kidney cancer. This is NOT a treatment for renal cancer. After your surgery, we will examine the tumor and other tissue to see how much of the antibody has attached to the tumor.