Prevention of Cardiac Dysfunction During Breast Cancer Therapy
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. The modern post-surgery treatment with chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiation and hormone therapy has improved the overall 5-years survival drastically. However, an unwanted effect of the post-surgery treatment is its potentially deleterious effect on the heart resulting in cardiac dysfunction. Angiotensin antagonists are used as part of the heart failure treatment. In smaller studies angiotensin antagonists have shown to have a cardioprotective effect during breast cancer treatment. Sacubitril/valsartan is a potent drug that in addition to an angiotensin antagonist contains a neprilysin inhibitor. Sacubitril/valsartan has proved to be superior to enalapril in chronic heart failure. In this randomized placebo controlled double blind trial we hypothesize that sacubitril/valsartan used concomitantly during anthracycline containing chemotherapy for breast cancer treatment prevents cardiac dysfunction as measured by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR). PRADA II is a Norwegian multicenter trial intending to recruit 214 patients and follow them for 18 months with CMR, cardiac ultrasound, blood samples, functional capacity tests and health related quality of life questionnaires.
Breast Cancer Female|Heart Failure
DRUG: Sacubitril/valsartan
Change in left ventricular ejection fraction by cardiovascular magnetic resonance, From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)
Change in left ventricular ejection fraction by echocardiography, From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)|Change in left ventricular systolic global longitudinal strain by echocardiography, From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)|Change in left ventricular systolic global longitudinal strain by cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR), From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)|Change in left ventricular end-systolic volume measured by CMR, From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)|Incidence of a significant reduction in left ventricular systolic function measured by CMR or echocardiography, An absolute reduction in LVEF ≥ 5% by CMR or a relative percentage reduction of global longitudinal strain (GLS) \> 15%, From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)|Incidence of cardiotoxicity measured by CMR or echocardiography, Absolute reduction in LVEF ≥ 10% to a value below 50% as measured either by CMR or Echocardiography, or incidence of clinical heart failure, From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)|Change in circulating cardiac biomarkers, Cardiac biomarkers defined as cardiac troponins I and T measured by high sensitivity assays (hs-TnI and hs-TnT) and N-terminal proB-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP), From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)
Incidence of adverse events and serious adverse events, From randomization to end of blinded therapy (18 months)
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women. The modern post-surgery treatment with chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiation and hormone therapy has improved the overall 5-years survival drastically. However, an unwanted effect of the post-surgery treatment is its potentially deleterious effect on the heart resulting in cardiac dysfunction. Angiotensin antagonists are used as part of the heart failure treatment. In smaller studies angiotensin antagonists have shown to have a cardioprotective effect during breast cancer treatment. Sacubitril/valsartan is a potent drug that in addition to an angiotensin antagonist contains a neprilysin inhibitor. Sacubitril/valsartan has proved to be superior to enalapril in chronic heart failure. In this randomized placebo controlled double blind trial we hypothesize that sacubitril/valsartan used concomitantly during anthracycline containing chemotherapy for breast cancer treatment prevents cardiac dysfunction as measured by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR). PRADA II is a Norwegian multicenter trial intending to recruit 214 patients and follow them for 18 months with CMR, cardiac ultrasound, blood samples, functional capacity tests and health related quality of life questionnaires.