Biological Therapy in Treating Women With Stage IV Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Biological therapies use different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop cancer cells from growing. Combining different types of biological therapies may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combining different biological therapies in treating women who have stage IV breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Aldesleukin|BIOLOGICAL: Sargramostim|BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic autologous lymphocytes
Maximum tolerated dose, The dose at which dose-limiting toxicity occurs is defined as that dose at which 2 or more of 6 patients at that dose level have their infusions stopped due to toxicities or receive less than 80% of the planned dose.|Toxicity profile, Months 1, 2, 5 and 11, then every 6 months|Clinical responses, Months: 1, 2, 5 and 11, then every 6 months|Overall survival and progression-free survival, The interval from the beginning of immunotherapy to the time of death or for progression free survival it is defined as the interval from the beginning of immunotherapy to progression
Immune changes, 1 (+ 7 days), 2 (+ 7 days), 5 months (+ 7 days), then every 6months (+ 7 days) (immune evaluations will also be performed after the 4th and 8th infusion of Her2Bi armed ATC and within 1week of the completion of HER2Bi armed ATC)
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of armed activated T cells given in combination with interleukin-2 and sargramostim (GM-CSF) in women with stage IV breast cancer.
* Determine the toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the clinical response and overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of armed activated T cells.

Patients undergo peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) collection. The PBMCs are treated ex vivo with monoclonal antibody OKT3 to form armed activated T cells (ATC). The armed ATC are expanded for 14 days in interleukin-2 (IL-2).

Patients receive armed ATC IV over 30 minutes twice weekly for 4 weeks. Patients also receive IL-2 subcutaneously (SC) once daily and sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC twice weekly beginning 3 days before the first infusion of armed ATC and continuing until 7 days after the last infusion of armed ATC.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of armed ATC until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, additional patients are treated at that dose.

Patients are followed at 1, 2, and 5 months and then every 6 months thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-30 patients will be accrued for the phase I portion of this study and a total of 18-33 patients will be accrued for the phase II portion of this study within 4-6 years.

PLEASE NOTE: THIS STUDY WAS INTENDED TO BE A PHASE I/II STUDY, BUT NEVER MOVED FORWARD TO PHASE II. (4-22-09)