A Phase II Trial of Poly-ICLC for Low-Grade Gliomas
This is a phase II, prospective, longitudinal, multi-center trial of poly-ICLC (Hiltonol ®) treatment for progressive low-grade gliomas in pediatric patients with NF1. The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive low-grade glioma (LGG) as measured by objective tumor response rate (CR+PR) within the first 48 weeks (12 cycles) of therapy. There will also be secondary and exploratory objectives listed in the detailed description below.
NF1|Low-grade Glioma
DRUG: Poly ICLC
Evaluate the Efficacy of Poly-ICLC, Evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive low-grade glioma (LGG) as measured by objective tumor response rate (CR+PR), using Response Assessment in Pediatric Neuro-Oncology (RAPNO) criteria. Complete Response (CR) is complete disappearance of the target lesion on T2 weighted and T2 weighted fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) imaging and contrast imaging using baseline MRI or best recorded response for comparison; Partial Response (PR) is 50% or greater reduction in the target lesion on T2 weighted and T2 weighted-FLAIR imaging using the baseline MRI for comparison. Response will be assessed through the time of the post-12th cycle tumor assessment, or through the last tumor assessment time during this nominal period for patients in follow-up but who have withdrawn from protocol therapy, or through the last available tumor assessment for patients who are lost to follow-up during this time., First 48 weeks
Determine Progression Free Survival (PFS), Determine progression free survival (PFS) in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive LGG treated with poly-ICLC. Progression free survival (PFS), defined as the time from start of treatment to the first occurrence of tumor recurrence, tumor progression, occurrence of a second malignancy, or death from any cause. Patients event-free at last follow-up will be censored in analysis. PFS will be determined at 12, 24 and 60 months., 12 months|Determine Progression Free Survival (PFS), Determine progression free survival (PFS) in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive LGG treated with poly-ICLC. Progression free survival (PFS), defined as the time from start of treatment to the first occurrence of tumor recurrence, tumor progression, occurrence of a second malignancy, or death from any cause. Patients event-free at last follow-up will be censored in analysis. PFS will be determined at 12, 24 and 60 months., 24 Months|Number of Participants Who Achieved Best Objective Tumor Response Rate (CR+PR), Evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive LGG as measured by best objective tumor response rate (CR+PR) within 24 cycles of therapy. Objective response rate (defined as CR or PR) after 24 cycles of treatment. Response will be assessed through the time of the post-24th cycle tumor assessment, or through the last tumor assessment time during this nominal period for patients in follow-up, but who have withdrawn from protocol therapy, or through the last available tumor assessment for patients who are lost to follow-up during this time., 24 Months|Evaluate Efficacy by Clinical Benefit Response Rate (CR+PR+MR+SD), Evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive LGG as measured by clinical benefit response rate (CR+PR+MR+SD). Clinical benefit defined as (CR+PR+MR+SD). Clinical benefit will be assessed through the time of the post-12 and 24th cycle tumor assessment, or through the last tumor assessment time during this nominal period for patients in follow-up but who have withdrawn from protocol therapy, or through the last available tumor assessment for patients who are lost to follow-up during this time., 12 Months|Evaluate Efficacy by Clinical Benefit Response Rate (CR+PR+MR+SD), Evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive LGG as measured by clinical benefit response rate (CR+PR+MR+SD). Clinical benefit defined as (CR+PR+MR+SD). Clinical benefit will be assessed through the time of the post-12 and 24th cycle tumor assessment, or through the last tumor assessment time during this nominal period for patients in follow-up but who have withdrawn from protocol therapy, or through the last available tumor assessment for patients who are lost to follow-up during this time., 24 Months|Assess Toxicity, Assess the toxicity associated with poly-ICLC treatment in pediatric NF1 patients with LGG. The grade and duration of CTCAE toxicities observed during treatment, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (CTCAE) version 5.0 for reporting of adverse events., Up to 24 Months
This is a phase II, prospective, longitudinal, multi-center trial of poly-ICLC (Hiltonol ®) treatment for progressive low-grade gliomas in pediatric patients with NF1. The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive low-grade glioma (LGG) as measured by objective tumor response rate (CR+PR) within the first 48 weeks (12 cycles) of therapy.

The secondary objectives are to:

1. Determine 12, 24 and 60 month progression free survival (PFS) in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive LGG treated with poly-ICLC.
2. Evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive LGG as measured by best objective tumor response rate (CR+PR) within 24 cycles of therapy.
3. Evaluate the efficacy of poly-ICLC in pediatric NF1 patients with progressive LGG as measured by clinical benefit response rate (CR+PR+MR+SD) after 12 and 24 cycles of therapy.
4. Assess the toxicity associated with poly-ICLC treatment in pediatric NF1 patients with LGG.

Exploratory objectives are to:

1. Evaluate the visual outcome measures in children with progressive optic pathway gliomas treated with poly-ICLC. Visual response is defined as 0.2 logMAR or greater in acuity improvement.
2. Evaluate patient reported outcomes and quality of life measures.
3. Evaluate biological correlates.