The Neuroprotective Effects of Dexmedetomidine During Brain Surgery
Dexmedetomidine (DEX) is a Alpha-2 specific agonist, is a common ICU sedation medication. In brain tumor resection craniotomy, it is proven to be effective in improving postoperative hypertension and tachycardia, mitigates postoperative nausea and vomiting and relives postoperative pain. In addition, many animal experiments show that DEX inhibits the proapoptosis in the mitochondrial in vivo and therefore avoids neuronal injury. It is also reported to be neuroprotective to isoflurane-induced neurotoxicity and to improve cerebral focal ischemic region (penumbra). However, the neuroprotective effects were never investigated clinically in patients undergoing brain tumor resection surgery.
Brain Tumor|Cerebrovascular Disorders
DRUG: Dexmedetomidine
Number of participants with postoperative neurological complications, during postoperative period of hospital admission, approximately 10 days by estimation
Number of participants with postoperative delirium, during postoperative period of hospital admission, approximately 10 days by estimation|Serum biomarkers changes, biomarkers related to neuroinflammation and neuronal injury, such as HMGB1 and GFAP, Between preoperative baseline and postoperative day one.|Intraoperative haemodynamic profile, during intraoperative perioid, approximately 4-6 hours by estimation
Dexmedetomidine (DEX) is a Alpha-2 specific agonist, is a common ICU sedation medication. In brain tumor resection craniotomy, it is proven to be effective in improving postoperative hypertension and tachycardia, mitigates postoperative nausea and vomiting and relives postoperative pain. In addition, many animal experiments show that DEX inhibits the proapoptosis in the mitochondrial in vivo and therefore avoids neuronal injury. It is also reported to be neuroprotective to isoflurane-induced neurotoxicity and to improve cerebral focal ischemic region (penumbra). However, the neuroprotective effects were never investigated clinically in patients undergoing brain tumor resection surgery.