Hypofractionation (Radiation) Trial for Multiple Myeloma
This study if for people who have been diagnosed with multiple myeloma and their doctors are recommending radiation to help treat it. Typically, radiation consists of 2-3 weeks of external beam radiation therapy. Doctors leading this study would like to see if a shorter radiation course (i.e., hypofractionation) for pelvic radiation is safe for multiple myeloma. Because participants in this study will receive a shortened radiation course, each daily treatment dose that is delivered would be slightly higher than normal. This higher daily dose would be delivered because the study team would like to see if higher doses of radiation are as safe given over a shorter number of days compared to 2-3 weeks. The purpose of this study is to make sure that hypofractionation is safe and effective for individuals with multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
RADIATION: Radiation
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Radiation of Per Fraction, Maximum tolerated dose per fraction as assessed by rate of reported dose-limiting toxicities among participants., 2 years
Rate of Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, The rate of grade 3 or higher adverse events as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 that occur within 1 month from the start of radiation., 1 month from start of radiation|Rate of Long-Term Adverse Events, The rate of long-term adverse events (after 1 month) from the end of radiation measured by an assessment of spinal osseous lesions using spinal instability neoplastic score (SINS) criteria and computed tomography (CT) imaging at first follow up., 2 Years|Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate as assessed by clinical notes/ study records., 2 years|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free as assessed by clinical notes/study records., 2 years|Local Control of the treated Lesion, Local control of the treated lesion as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., 2 years
This study if for people who have been diagnosed with multiple myeloma and their doctors are recommending radiation to help treat it. Typically, radiation consists of 2-3 weeks of external beam radiation therapy. Doctors leading this study would like to see if a shorter radiation course (i.e., hypofractionation) for pelvic radiation is safe for multiple myeloma. Because participants in this study will receive a shortened radiation course, each daily treatment dose that is delivered would be slightly higher than normal. This higher daily dose would be delivered because the study team would like to see if higher doses of radiation are as safe given over a shorter number of days compared to 2-3 weeks. The purpose of this study is to make sure that hypofractionation is safe and effective for individuals with multiple myeloma.

In this study, there will be 4 different radiation schedules, ranging from 1-10 daily treatments. Participants in this study will be assigned to one of the dose schedules, and they will know this ahead of time. The study team will evaluate whether the shorter course of radiation is safe by monitoring and evaluating any side effects participants have that are related to the radiation schedule. As part of the research-related activities, the study team will monitor participants' side effects using assessments by their doctors; this will occur before, during, and after radiation therapy for a total of 2 years after radiation.