PMCF Study of the CE-marked Drainova® ArgentiC Catheter
The goal of this observational study is to learn about the performance of the drainova® ArgentiC Catheter in clinical routine, which is used to treat fluid accumulations in hollow body structures. The device is already on the market and participants receive the catheter as part of their regular treatment.

The main questions of this study are:

* Does the device function as intended?
* Are there any other safety risks that have not been identified?
* Does it lower the symptoms of the patients as intended?

Doctors and patients will answer questions regarding the improvement of the patients´ symptoms and if there were any problems with the catheter.
Pleural Effusion|Pleural Effusion, Malignant|Ascites|Ascites, Malignant
DEVICE: Indwelling catheter
Ascites- and pleural effusion-associated symptom relief, Measured by assessing the VAS score of the patient´s symptoms (e.g. pain) at baseline and discharge (defined by clinical routine)., Discharge (1-7 days post-implantation)|Catheter patency, Occurrence of catheter blockage, occlusion or displacement, Discharge (1-7 days post-implantation)|Implantation success, Must meet the following items:

1. Successful placement at the defined location
2. Feasibility of initial drainage of fluid (volume in ml), Immediately after procedure|Incidence of major adverse events, infections and device deficiencies, Frequency of device- and/ or procedure-related major adverse events (MAEs), infections and device deficiencies, Up to three months post-implanatation
Improvement of the patients´ quality-of-life vs. baseline, Quality-of-life will be assessed by QoL questionnaire, discharge (1-7 days post-implantation), 30 days, 3 months
The drainova® ArgentiC Catheter initially received the CE mark in 2019 under the Medical Device Directive 93/42/EEC, thus being considered a legacy device under the Medical Device Regulation (EU) 2017/745 (MDR). In order to fulfill the requirements of the MDR, this PMCF study is planned to be conducted to obtain clinical data on the device confirming its safety, performance and clinical benefit in clinical routine according to the instructions for use (IFU).

This PMCF study is performed as a purely observational activity within the current standards of care and without additional invasive or burdensome procedures. The drainova® ArgentiC catheter is a catheter indicated for the treatment of patients with pleural effusions and ascites, both in the malignant and non-malignant manifestations.