Enhancing Survivorship Care Planning for Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer Using A Couple-focused Web-based Tailored Symptom Self-management Program
The purpose of this research study is to examine the feasibility of the enhanced survivorship care plans (ESCPs, regular SCPs with the a web-based couple-focused symptom self-management project (PERC) or National Cancer Institute prostate cancer web links) and to conduct an initial benefit assessment of enhanced survivorship care plans among prostate cancer patients transitioning from active treatment to post-treatment self-management, and their partners.

Participation of this study lasts for about for 16 weeks. Depending on participants' need for information, it takes 10-30 minutes of their time each week to review the information about prostate cancer.

Eligible and consented patients with newly treated localized prostate cancer and your partner (couples) are randomly assigned to the regular survivorship care plan (SCPs) with the NCI website or the enhanced survivorship care plans (SCP plus the web-based prostate cancer education program, PERC) groups. They complete baseline (T1, prior to randomization) and 4-month post-T1 follow-up measures (T2).
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Survivorship Care Plan|OTHER: Enhanced Survivorship Care Plan
Percentage of Potentially Eligible Participants Actually Enrolled Into the Study, Will evaluate the percentage of patients and partners successfully consented and completing the baseline survey among all people approached for the study, after participants completed baseline survey|Percentage of Participants Enrolled Who Remained in the Study and Completed the Post-Intervention Follow-Up Survey, Will evaluate the percentage of participants successfully following protocol, defined as completing the Follow-Up survey at the end of the study period among those who have been enrolled into the study (who completed the baseline)., during 4-month study period|Percentage of Participants That Used the Web-Based Intervention Sessions That Are Consistent With Patient-Reported Symptoms, The usage of Web-Based Intervention Sessions is determined by the percentage of participants who logged into the study website among those who have been randomly assigned to the intervention group. Patient-Reported Symptoms are determined by patient's responses on their appraisal of prostate cancer symptoms and general symptoms. 1=patient reported the symptom and the symptom webpage reviewed; 0=patient reported the symptom and no related webpage reviewed OR patient did not report the symptom but the webpage reviewed, during 4-month study period|Participant Satisfaction Scores, Program satisfaction determined by the 11-item Participant Satisfaction Scale measured the level of program satisfaction. The first to tenth items ranged from 1=not satisfied to 5=extremely satisfied. The eleventh item ranged from 1=extremely not to 4=definitely yes. Higher total score indicates greater program satisfaction, at the 4 month followup|Perceived Ease of Use Score, The 16-item Program Usability measures participants' assessment of their agreement with the ease of use of the program in terms of its general features, content, and navigation. The ranges of the total scores are (3,15), (4,20), (9,45) for general features, content, and navigation, respectively. The score of individual item ranges from1=strongly disagree to 5=strongly agree. Higher score indicates greater perceived ease of use., at the 4 month followup
Change in FACT-G Scores, Change in QOL determined using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy General Scale (FACT-G) v.4, a 27-item measure yielding total score and scores for physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being of demonstrated reliability, validity, and sensitivity to change. FACT-G consists of 4 subscales: physical well-being (PWB), functional well-being (FWB), emotional well-being (EWB) and social well-being (SWB). Scores on the four subscales are summed to produce a total score ranging from 0 to 108 with higher scores indicating better quality of life. Change from baseline is the post-Baseline values minus the Baseline value., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4|Change in Appraisal of Prostate Cancer-Specific Symptoms, The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) is a comprehensive instrument designed to evaluate patient function and bother after prostate cancer treatment. EPIC will be used to measure change in appraisal of symptoms scores among patients from Baseline (T1) to T2 (4 months post T1). EPIC contains 26 items within 5 domains: Urinary Incontinence, Urinary Irritative/Obstructive, Bowel, Sexual, and Hormonal. Response options for each EPIC item form a Likert scale, and multi-item scale scores are transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores representing opposite results by role: patient with better appraisal of symptoms and partner with worse appraisal of symptoms. Change from baseline is the post-Baseline values minus the Baseline value., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4|Change in Appraisal of General Symptoms, The 19-item Risk for Distress-general symptoms is a subscale of the Risk for Distress Scale. It measures how much trouble the participant has with the general symptoms such as pain, fatigue, and etc. The total score ranges between 0 and 38, with higher scores indicating worse appraisal of symptoms. Change from baseline is the post-Baseline values minus the Baseline value., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4|Healthcare Utilization Extracted From Electronic Medical Record, The total number of prostate cancer-related followup visits, emergency room use and readmissions., during the first 10 months after participants completed baseline survey|Change in Self-Efficacy Scores From Baseline to 4-Months Post Baseline, The Lewis Cancer Self-Efficacy used to measure change in participants' feelings of self-efficacy in dealing with the patient's cancer diagnosis and treatment from Baseline (T1) to T2 (4 months post T1). Participants rate statements about how confident they feel on a scale from 1 to 10, where higher scores indicate higher self-efficacy., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4|Change in PROMIS Social Support-Informational Support From Baseline to 4-Months Post-Baseline, The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Informational Support Short Form 8a will be used to assess changes in patient and partner reported informational support system using a 5-point Likert scale from Baseline (T1) to T2 (4 months post T1). The total score range: 8-40. Higher scores indicate more informational support. Change from baseline is the post-Baseline values minus the Baseline value., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4|Change in PROMIS Social Support-Emotional Support From Baseline to 4-months Post-Baseline, The PROMIS Emotional Support System-Short Form 8a will be used to assess changes in the self-reported emotional support system of patients and their partners using a 5-point Likert scale from Baseline (T1) to T2 (4 months post T1). The total score range: 8-40. Higher scores indicate more emotional social support. Change from baseline is the post-Baseline values minus the Baseline value., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4|Change in PROMIS Social Support-Instrumental Support From Baseline to 4-months Post-Baseline, The PROMIS Instrumental Support-Short Form 8a will be used to assess changes in patient and partner reported instrumental support system using a 5-point Likert scale from Baseline (T1) to T2 (4 months post T1). The total score range: 8-40. Higher scores indicate more instrumental support. Change from baseline is the post-Baseline values minus the Baseline value., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4|Change in Dietary Risk Assessment Scores From Baseline to 4-month Post Baseline as Measured by the Health Promoting Lifestyle Profile II, Change in Dietary Risk Assessment scores used to measure changes in dietary risk from Baseline (T1) to T2 (4 months post T1). Change from baseline is the post-Baseline values minus the Baseline value. Participants are asked how often they consume different foods over the past month or week and respond using a Likert Scale ranging from 1=never to 4=routinely. The total score range: 8-32. Higher scores indicate better health behaviors in nutrition., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4|Change in Physical Activity Assessment Scores From Baseline to 4-month Post Baseline as Measured by the Health Promoting Lifestyle Profile II, Change in Physical Activity Assessment scores used to measure changes in physical activity from Baseline (T1) to T2 (4 months post T1). Change from baseline is the post-Baseline values minus the Baseline value. Participants are asked how often they engage in exercises and physical activity over the past month or week and respond using a Likert Scale, ranging from 1=never to 4=routinely. The total score range: 9-36. Higher scores indicate better health behaviors in physical activity., Baseline upon enrollment, Month 4
Methods: A two-group randomized controlled pretest-posttest design will be used and collect data at baseline (T1) and 4 months later (T2) among 50 patients completing initial treatment for localized prostate cancer and their partners. First, the investigators will assess the feasibility of ESCP by recruitment, enrollment, and retention rates, program satisfaction with the ESCP, and perceived ease of use of the ESCP. To achieve the secondary aim, the ESCP users will be compared with the standardized SCP users and assess their primary outcomes of QOL (overall, physical, emotional, and social QOL), secondary outcomes (reduction in negative appraisals and improvement in self-efficacy, social support, and health behaviors to manage symptoms), and number of visits to post-treatment care services at T1 and T2. The primary and secondary outcomes are assessed using measurements with sound psychometrical properties. The investigators will use a qualitative and quantitative mixed methods approach to achieve the research aims.

Conclusions: The results from this study will help design a definitive randomized trial to test the efficacy of the ESCPs, a potentially scalable program, to enhance supportive care for prostate cancer patients and their families.