IMAging With Opto-acoustics to downgradE BI-RADS claSsificaTion Relative tO Other Diagnostic Methodologies (MAESTRO)
Imagio breast imaging system, is an opto-acoustic (OA) imaging system designed to concurrently collect images in conjunction with diagnostic ultrasound ( co-registered OA and B-mode imaging). This medical device has CE-marking and is approved for use in Europe and other nations.

This is a post-market, non-randomized multi-center surveillance study.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Imagio IUS|DEVICE: Imagio OA/US
OA/US Specificity (Downgrade (%) for BI-RADS 4A & 4B) of Benign Masses, Outcome is the percentage of benign masses correctly downgraded by (OA/US) ultrasonography from a suspicious abnormality (4A or 4B) to benign or probably benign (BI-RADS 2 or 3). BI-RADS is the Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System established the American College of Radiology. BI-RADS scores range from 0 to 6, with increase in score indicating an increase in the probability of malignancy. A BI-RADS score of 4 or more indicates the need for biopsy. Specificity is reported with a 96% confidence interval using a normal approximation., CDU images and decision to biopsy to be done at Screening. OA/US imaging to be done within 10 days of Screening. Biopsy to be done within 30 days of Screening.|OA/US Sensitivity (Upgrade (%) for BI-RADS 4A & 4B) of Malignant Masses, Outcome is the percentage of malignant masses correctly identified by (OA/US) ultrasonography as BI-RADS 4a or higher. BI-RADS is the Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System established the American College of Radiology. BI-RADS scores range from 0 to 6, with increase in score indicating an increase in the probability of malignancy. A BI-RADS score of 4 or more indicates the need for biopsy. Sensitivity is reported with a 96% confidence interval using a normal approximation., CDU images and decision to biopsy to be done at Screening. OA/US imaging to be done within 10 days of Screening. Biopsy to be done within 30 days of Screening.
This is a post-market surveillance study that is prospective, controlled, multi-center, to evaluate if Imagio OA can downgrade BI-RADS ( Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System) classification following CDU (Conventional Diagnostic Ultrasound) for the visualization and characterization of suspicious masses prior to core needle biopsy (CNB) or excision. Investigators will perform CDU to reach a diagnosis and decision to biopsy. Imagio OA will not be used as the reason to perform or to defer a CNB (Core Needle Biopsy) or excision.