Quality of Life and Physical Fitness After Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors
Rationale: Tremendous anti-tumor effects have been achieved using immune checkpoint inhibitors for melanoma and NSCLC with long lasting responses of more than 2 years in a substantial subgroup of patients. However, we are still largely unaware of the health-related quality of life of these patients. We should carefully and thoroughly assess the long-term burden of disease and treatment toxicity.

Objective: Primary Objective: to investigate health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of patients surviving 2 years or more after the first cycle of an immune checkpoint inhibitor for melanoma or NSCLC. Secondary Objectives: to assess neurocognitive function, endocrine function, cardiovascular risk, physical fitness, mood disorders, sexual problems, work participation in patients surviving 2 years or more after the first cycle of immune checkpoint inhibitor; to assess quality of life of the caregivers of these patients.

Study design: Observational cross-sectional study. Study population: Patients (age ≥18 years) with melanoma or NSCLC ≥2 years since treatment with at least one cycle of immune checkpoint inhibitor (CTLA-4 inhibitor, PD-(L)1 inhibitor, or both).

Main study parameters/endpoints: health-related quality of life (HRQoL) as measured using the EORTC Quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30). Secondary study parameters: possible late effects (neurocognitive dysfunction, endocrine disorders, dermatologic complaints, sexual disorders and infertility, increased cardiovascular risk, and fatigue), physical fitness, psychosocial issues related to work/education, mood disorders (anxiety and depression), patient and treatment-related factors potentially influencing development of late effects, well-being, and quality of life of caregivers.
Melanoma|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
Health-related quality of life (HRQoL), European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Core questionnaire (QLQ-C30), 3 years
cognitive function, Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R);, 3 years|cognitive function, Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWA);, 3 years|cognitive function, Trail Making Test (TMT), 3 years|Physical fitness, six-minute walk test (6MWT), 3 years|endocrine function, measurement of gonadal and pituitary function in blood, 3 years|Quality of life of caregivers, Caregiver Quality of Life Index-Cancer (CQOLC), 3 years|muscle strength, Maximal voluntary isometric muscle force of the right and left extremity of extension of the knee, flexion of the knee, flexion of the elbow, extension of the elbow and grip-strength of the hand will be measured using a hand-held dynamometer., 3 years
Participation in the study will include one study visit of approximately 2.5 hours. If possible, the study visit will be combined with a regular follow-up visit. Vena puncture is the only invasive procedure, with low risk of adverse effects. Blood will be drawn after an overnight fast. To minimize the duration of the visit, patients will be offered to fill out the questionnaires at home. Individual adverse test results will be reported to a participants' treating physician to enable treatment or follow-up as indicated. The results of the full study group will be used to guide future interventions and support for melanoma and NSCLC patients.