Investigation of the Effectiveness of Tele-pulmonary Rehabilitation After Lung Resection
As a result of the review in the literature, no study was found in which tele-pulmonary rehabilitation was applied after physiotherapist-supervised lung resection via video conferencing.

Therefore, in this study, it was planned to investigate the effectiveness of tele-pulmonary rehabilitation in patients diagnosed with lung cancer and undergoing lung resection.
Tele-pulmonary Rehabilitation|Lung Cancer|Lung Resection
OTHER: Rehabilitation group
Functional exercises capacity, A 6-minute walk test will be performed to determine functional exercise capacity., 8 weeks|Pulmonary function test, Pulmonary function test will be made in accordance with ats criteria, 8 weeks|Peripheral muscle strength, Peripheral muscle strength will be done with 'Lafayette' device, 8 weeks|Upper extremity normal range of motion, Upper extremity normal range of motion will be measured with a manual goniometer, 8 weeks
Anxiety and depression, Hospital anxiety and depression scale (HAD scale); It will be used to measure and evaluate patients' anxiety and depression scales., 8 weeks|Determination of quality of life, EORTC QLQ-C30; This scale is a widely used quality of life scale in cancer patients all over the world., 8 weeks|Cognitive functions, Mini mental state test; will be used to evaluate postoperative cognitive dysfunction., 8 weeks
Research; It was planned as a prospective and randomized controlled study. The research universe is Istanbul Kartal Dr. Lütfi Kırdar City Hospital Chest Surgery Clinic will consist of cases with a preliminary diagnosis of lung cancer. The sample of the study, on the other hand, will consist of patients who agreed to participate in the study and who met the inclusion criteria, who were planned for lung resection.

1. Study group (n=18); The treatment features of the tele-pulmonary rehabilitation group via videoconferencing are; Within the scope of the tele-pulmonary rehabilitation program, an exercise program consisting of lower-upper extremity strengthening training and flexibility training, breathing exercises training (diaphragmatic breathing, thoracic expansion exercises and forced expiration) and aerobic exercise training will be created before discharge, exercise session will be followed. Re-evaluation will be done after 8 weeks.Exercise intensity will be planned as 2 days a week with supervision and 1 day without supervision, 3 days a week in total. Exercise safety will be ensured by taking the severity of shortness of breath of the patients as a reference.
2. Control group (n=18); Patients in the tele-pulmonary rehabilitation control group will be given respiratory and aerobic exercise advice before discharge. Re-evaluation will be done after 8 weeks.