Alvopem® (Pemetrexed) Safety Assessment
The present study was a phase IV, post-marketing, observational study for safety evaluation of Alvopem® use in Iranian patients with non-small cell lung cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma. No control groups were included in the study design.

The primary objective of this study was safety assessment, including the incidence of adverse events (AEs).
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
DRUG: Pemetrexed
Safety Assessment Including Treatment-related Adverse Events (Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Adverse Event (AE) or One Serious Adverse Event (SAE)), In this study, number of participants who experienced at least one adverse event (AE) or one serious adverse event (SAE) were assessed. The intensity of AEs was graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and terminology for AEs was chosen according to the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) system organ class and preferred term. Also, intensity, seriousness, onset of AEs, and interventions for management of the adverse events were documented in the booklet. For each AE, data was summarized using system organ class and preferred term of AEs and SAEs. Moreover, causality assessment was done based on the World health organization-Uppsala Monitoring Centre (WHO-UMC) system., This outcome was assessed throughout the study, up to 18 weeks (6 chemotherapy cycles). The duration of treatment was at the physicians' discretion based on the patient's condition
The present study was a phase IV, post-marketing, observational study for safety evaluation of Alvopem® use in Iranian patients with non-small cell lung cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma.

Data was gathered in one booklet, which had 6 different periods. The patients' information assessed after each injection, every 3 weeks. These booklets were completed by designated physicians.

The primary objective of this study was safety assessment, including the incidence and intensity of AEs and serious adverse events (SAEs).

This study was single arm and the sample size of this study was 199 patients.