Ascorbic Acid and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This pilot clinical trial studies the side effects of ascorbic acid and combination chemotherapy in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other places in the body, has come back, or cannot be removed by surgery. Nutrients found in food and dietary supplements, such as ascorbic acid, may improve the tolerability of chemotherapy regimens. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ascorbic acid and combination chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Unresectable Pancreatic Carcinoma
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Ascorbic Acid
Number of Participants With Adverse Events as Determined by CTCAE Version 4.03, After 4 patients are enrolled on the study and receive at least one dose of intravenous ascorbic acid, the data will be reviewed. If 2 out of the 4 cannot complete 2 courses of FOLFIRINOX then the study will be halted., Up to 28 days after the last treatment
Change in Quality of Life as Defined by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C-30, Change in quality of life over the six measurement times will be modeled using mixed effects linear regression to account for correlation among repeated measurements from the same subjects. Average change in QoL from baseline to follow-up will be computed., Baseline to up to 28 days after the last treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine safety of intravenous ascorbic acid in combination with fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, leucovorin calcium, and oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX) as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test feasibility of collecting quality of life (QOL), patient reported outcomes (PRO) data and correlative studies on patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.