Camrelizumab Combined With Irinotecan or Albumin Paclitaxel for Second-line Treatment of Advanced Gastric Cancer
This study is a multicenter, open, and randomized clinical phase II exploratory study. The "pick the winner" study design is used to determine and select which chemotherapy drug (irinotecan vs. albumin plus paclitaxel) is more effective in the second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer, and it is more hopeful to carry out the follow-up phase III study in the second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer (karelizumab+chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy). The study plans to include 184 patients with advanced gastric cancer who have received first-line platinum+fluorouracil progression, randomly use albumin paclitaxel+carrelizumab or irinotecan+carrelizumab second-line therapy, and observe the objective effective rate (ORR), total survival time (OS), progression free survival time (PFS), treatment related adverse reactions, quality of life and other clinical indicators after receiving the above treatment, Then determine the second line scheme which is more advantageous.
Second Line Treatment of Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Camrelizumab|DRUG: Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel|DRUG: Irinotecan
Objective Response Rate, CR+PR, up to 12 weeks
Overall Survival, Time from random start of treatment to death from any cause, From date of randomization until the date of date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Progression-free Survival, Time from random start of treatment to death or tumor progression due to any reason, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Treatment related adverse reactions, Evaluation according to CTC 4.0, 24 months|Quality of life assessment, according to EORTC C30, 24 months
This study is a multicenter, open, and randomized clinical phase II exploratory study. The "pick the winner" study design is used to determine and select which chemotherapy drug (irinotecan vs. albumin plus paclitaxel) is more effective in the second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer, and it is more hopeful to carry out the follow-up phase III study in the second-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer (karelizumab+chemotherapy vs. chemotherapy). The study plans to include 184 patients with advanced gastric cancer who have received first-line platinum+fluorouracil progression, randomly use albumin paclitaxel+carrelizumab or irinotecan+carrelizumab second-line therapy, and observe the objective effective rate (ORR), total survival time (OS), progression free survival time (PFS), treatment related adverse reactions, quality of life and other clinical indicators after receiving the above treatment, Then determine the second line scheme which is more advantageous.