Single-level and Two-level Serratus Posterior Superior Intercostal Plan Block (SPSIPB)
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women; one of the mainstays of breast cancer treatment is surgery, and modified radical mastectomy is one of the standard treatments. Postoperative pain can seriously reduce the quality of life in patients, and acute pain can even trigger chronic pain syndrome. Thoracic paravertebral, thoracic epidural, intercostal nerve, and interscalene brachial plexus blocks have been used for anesthesia and abrigation during modified radical mastectomy, but their applications are limited due to the complex nature of the procedures and serious complications. In recent years, regional nerve blocks, including intercostal nerve block, erector spinae plane block (ESPB), and paravertebral block, PECS I-II block, serratus anterior plane block (SAPB), and Serratus Posterior Superior Intercostal Plane Block (SPSIPB), have been applied for the treatment of postmastectomy pain in breast cancer patients. SPSIPB has been frequently used for the treatment of acute pain in the postoperative period following surgeries in the thoracic region. SPSIPB is placed on the spine of the scapula in the sagittal plane to identify the second and third ribs under USG guidance. After visualizing the trapezius and serratus posterior superior (SPS) by moving medially to the upper medial border of the scapula, a block is applied to the depths of the SPS from above the 3rd rib. The applied local anesthetic solution spreads under the SPS muscle. Ipsilateral postoperative analgesia is provided with SPSIPB. SPSIPB can be applied on the 3rd rib in one go, or on the 3rd and 4th ribs in two go. Thus, the local anesthetic solution can be distributed more effectively and more effective postoperative analgesia can be provided.
Opioid Consumption|Demographic Data
PROCEDURE: Single level SPSIPB|PROCEDURE: Two-level SPSIPB
Intraoperative opioid consumption., Intraoperative opioid consumption will be recorded., Intraoperative period
Postoperative 24-hour numeric rating scale, Postoperative numeric rating scale will be recorded.(0: no pain-10: severe pain), postoperative 24 hours period
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women; one of the mainstays of breast cancer treatment is surgery, and modified radical mastectomy is one of the standard treatments. Postoperative pain can seriously reduce the quality of life in patients, and acute pain can even trigger chronic pain syndrome. Thoracic paravertebral, thoracic epidural, intercostal nerve, and interscalene brachial plexus blocks have been used for anesthesia and abrigation during modified radical mastectomy, but their applications are limited due to the complex nature of the procedures and serious complications. In recent years, regional nerve blocks, including intercostal nerve block, erector spinae plane block (ESPB), and paravertebral block, PECS I-II block, serratus anterior plane block (SAPB), and Serratus Posterior Superior Intercostal Plane Block (SPSIPB), have been applied for the treatment of postmastectomy pain in breast cancer patients. SPSIPB has been frequently used for the treatment of acute pain in the postoperative period following surgeries in the thoracic region. SPSIPB is placed on the spine of the scapula in the sagittal plane to identify the second and third ribs under USG guidance. After visualizing the trapezius and serratus posterior superior (SPS) by moving medially to the upper medial border of the scapula, a block is applied to the depths of the SPS from above the 3rd rib. The applied local anesthetic solution spreads under the SPS muscle. Ipsilateral postoperative analgesia is provided with SPSIPB. SPSIPB can be applied on the 3rd rib in one go, or on the 3rd and 4th ribs in two go. Thus, the local anesthetic solution can be distributed more effectively and more effective postoperative analgesia can be provided.