Abemaciclib in Combination With Bicalutamide for Androgen Receptor-positive, HER2-negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
This is an open label multicenter, Phase IB/II Study of Abemaciclib in Combination with Bicalutamide for Androgen Receptor-positive, HER2-negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
Breast Cancer|Metastasis
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Bicalutamide
The Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) and Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D), For the Phase 1 portion of the trial Bayesian optimal interval (BOIN) design is being used. a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 12 patients enrolled to determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and will be the recommended phase II dose (RP2D).

• A DLT will be defined as:

* Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity
* Grade 3 neutropenia lasting greater than 21 days
* Grade 3 or 4 neutropenia with neutropenic fever
* Grade 4 hematologic toxicity events experienced within the first 4 weeks (1 cycle) of study treatment.

These will be assessed via National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI CTCAE\] v.5.0 toxicity criteria. The DLT period will be the first cycle (28 days) of therapy., 12 weeks
Frequency of Adverse Events (AE), The frequency and percentage of AE associated with abemaciclib in combination with bicalutamide by the type, severity (as graded by the NCI CTCAE v.5.0), and relationship to study medications., 12 weeks|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR) is defined as the percentage of patients whose cancer shrinks or remains stable over the duration of the study. This will be measured as the sum of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD) for greater than or equal to 24 weeks.

CR: Disappearance of all target lesions, determined by two separate observations conducted not less than 4 weeks apart. There can be no appearance of new lesions.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. There can be no appearance of new lesions.

PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more new lesions.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, 12 weeks
This is an open label multicenter, Phase IB/II Study of Abemaciclib in Combination with Bicalutamide for Androgen Receptor-positive, HER2-negative Metastatic Breast Cancer About 54-60 patients will be enrolled over the course of 36 months. Patients will be treated until disease progression.

Study regimen is Abemaciclib with Bicalutamide

Primary objective is to determine the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and recommended phase II dose for abemaciclib when administered in combination with bicalutamide and to determine the efficacy of the treatment secondary objective is to determine the safety and tolerability along with progression free survival.

Given the suggestive pre-clinical data and the unique properties of abemaciclib, the researchers believe that abemaciclib is an ideal partner for bicalutamide in treatment of AR+ metastatic breast cancer. The study team hypothesize that the combination will demonstrate a further improved clinical benefit rate than either agent alone, including in those patients who have already been treated with prior endocrine therapies. Additionally, the study team believe that the convenience of an all-oral, continuous daily dosing schedule and the favorable side effect profile of both therapies with minimal overlapping or serious toxicities further supports this investigation.