Qualitative, Qualitative, and Functional Studies Over the First Year in Measuring Immune System Response During the First Year of Therapy in Patients With Brain Tumors
This research trial studies qualitative, qualitative, and functional studies over the first year in measuring immune system response in patients with brain tumors. Measuring the number of immune cells, whether these immune cells work correctly, and response to 2 vaccines at several times during the first year of treatment may help find out how active the immune system responds to fight infection and cancer.
Astrocytoma|Glioma|Oligodendroglioma
BIOLOGICAL: Hepatitis A Vaccine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Tetanus Toxoid Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Trivalent Influenza Vaccine
Proliferative ability of lymphocytes by carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester assay, Mean values of the quantitative measures and proliferative ability will be calculated for each four time points and compared to determine the trajectory over time as described. In addition, the repeated measures for quantitative measures will be displayed graphically with individual trajectories. The linear mixed model will be performed to identify predictors (e.g., sex) that are associated with the quantitative measures. Furthermore, the generalized estimating equations model with the logit link and binomial distribution will be used to identify predictors for qualitative measures (e.g., prol, Up to 1 year|The quantity of cells determined by flow cytometry, Mean values of the quantitative measures and proliferative ability will be calculated for each four time points and compared to determine the trajectory over time as described. In addition, the repeated measures for quantitative measures will be displayed graphically with individual trajectories. The linear mixed model will be performed to identify predictors (e.g., sex) that are associated with the quantitative measures. Furthermore, the generalized estimating equations model with the logit link and binomial distribution will be used to identify predictors for qualitative measures (e.g., prol, Up to 1 year
Response of the tetanus toxoid vaccine-specific IgG antibody, Baseline and day 28 geometric mean titers (GMTs) will be calculated for hepatitis A or B and tetanus. GMTs for patients undergoing vaccination pre- and post-treatment will be performed. The difference in 28 day GMT between pretreatment and posttreatment will be compared using the paired t test. Analysis of covariance will be used to identify predictors that are associated with the change of 28 day difference in GMT. Seroconversion or a 4-fold rise in GMT from baseline to day 28 will be determined for pre and post treatment patient cohorts. Seroconversion proportion will be compared against kno, At 28 days following tetanus toxoid vaccination|Vaccine-specific total antibody response after hepatitis A vaccination. In hepatitis A exposed patients, hepatitis B will be used., Baseline and day 28 geometric mean titers (GMTs) will be calculated for each vaccine (i.e. hepatitis A or B and tetanus). GMTs for patients undergoing vaccination pre- and post-treatment will be performed. The difference in 28-day GMT between pre-treatment and post-treatment will be compared using the paired-t test. Analysis of covariance will be used to identify predictors that are associated with the change of 28-day difference in GMT. Seroconversion or a 4-fold rise in GMT from baseline to day-28 will be determined for pre- and post-treatment patient cohorts. Seroconversion proportion will, At 28 days post hepatitis A vaccination
Frequency of viral infection, The distribution will be plotted using a histogram. Assessment of influenza vaccine immunogenicity will be performed. GMTs will be calculated at baseline and day 28. Seroconversion (i.e. 4-fold rise in GMT from baseline to day 28) will be determined. Proportions will be binned according to the timing of influenza vaccination: (1) pre-treatment, (2) during radiation, (3) during adjuvant chemotherapy, and (4) post-treatment. Seroconversion proportion within each time point will be compared against known normal using a one proportion test., Up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), The Kaplan Meier method will be used to estimate OS probability and median time of survival along with 95% confidence interval. Proportional hazards models will be used to assess for associations between mortality and baseline quantitative immunologic values, baseline qualitative immunologic function, and baseline and post-treatment seroconversion to each vaccine (treated as a time dependent variable). All p-values will be reported as two-sided., Date of surgery to death from any cause, assessed up to 14 months|Titer of the influenza vaccine-specific IgG antibody, Baseline and day 28 geometric mean titers (GMTs) will be calculated for hepatitis A or B and tetanus. GMTs for patients undergoing vaccination pre- and post-treatment will be performed. The difference in 28 day GMT between pretreatment and posttreatment will be compared using the paired t test. Analysis of covariance will be used to identify predictors that are associated with the change of 28 day difference in GMT. Seroconversion or a 4-fold rise in GMT from baseline to day 28 will be determined for pre and post treatment patient cohorts. Seroconversion proportion will be compared against kno, At 28 days following vaccination with the trivalent inactivated influenza vaccine
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the quantity of immune cells underlying the antitumor immune response including dendritic cells, naive and activated T- and B-cells, regulatory T-cells, and natural killer cells.

II. To determine the proliferative ability of lymphocytes via T-cell activation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the immunologic response to the hepatitis A vaccine (or hepatitis B vaccine in those who are hepatitis A exposed) in comparison to expected/known normal responses either prior to (i.e. pre-treatment) or following chemoradiation (i.e. post-treatment).

II. To describe the immunologic response to tetanus toxoid vaccination compared to expected/known normal responses either prior to (i.e. pre-treatment) or following chemoradiation (i.e. post-treatment).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the immunologic response to the yearly influenza vaccination over the course of the first year of therapy for glioma (timing of administration will be when clinically indicated over this year of therapy).

II. To describe the frequency of viral infection in glioma patients hospitalized during the respiratory viral season within year 1 of therapy.

III. To describe the overall survival of glioma patients enrolled in this study and describe the overall survival in these patients by changes in immunologic function.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive standard of care hepatitis A or B vaccine, tetanus toxoid vaccine, and trivalent influenza vaccine and then undergo standard of care treatment external beam radiation therapy and receive standard of care temozolomide. Patients also undergo collection of blood Samples monthly for the first 8 months and then bimonthly for up to 12 months for analysis via flow cytometry, carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester (CFSE) assay, live cell/dead cell distinction assay, and determination of naïve and memory immune response.

GROUP II: Patients undergo standard of care treatment and collection of blood samples as in Group I. Patients then receive hepatitis A and tetanus toxoid vaccinations at month 9.