Epigenetic and Metabolomic Changes in Childhood Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this research study is to try and identify markers in childhood cancer survivors to help predict if they will develop late effects from their cancer treatment.
Childhood Cancer
OTHER: One-time blood draw|OTHER: Evaluation of CpG methylation|OTHER: Metabolomic analysis
Epigenetic Testing, Baseline and follow-up differences (predictor) in CpG methylation at sites on the EPIC array will be compared between subjects and controls (outcomes). Samples will be evaluated using the Infinium Methylation EPIC BeadChip microarray. This evaluates over 850,000 CpG methylation sites. The proportion of methylation for each site is based on the ratio of the fluorescence intensity of the methylated versus the combined methylated and unmethylated probes (referred to as the β value), and will be determined with GenomeStudio (Illumina, Inc.). For analysis, all β values will be converted to M values, where M is the log2 ratio of the methylated probe intensity to the unmethylated probe intensity., Over 9 months|Metabolomic testing, Metabolic profiling will be done on serum using ultrahigh-performance liquid-phase chromatography and gas-chromatography separation, coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (UHPLC/MS/MS2 and GC/MS, respectively) at Metabolon, Inc. (Durham, NC, USA) using established procedures and technology. (10) samples will be collected at three time points based on disease type and will be flash frozen in liquid nitrogen after collection and stored at -80°C to ensure sample stability., Over 9 months
This is a pilot study to obtain preliminary data that will be used to apply for a larger grant to fund the full study with an adequate sample size for analysis.

Specific Aim 1. What are the epigenetic differences between children treated for childhood cancers and healthy controls matched for age, sex, ethnicity, geographic region, and tanner stage.

Specific Aim 2. Compare the metabolomic differences between children treated for childhood cancers and healthy controls matched for age, sex, ethnicity, geographic region, and tanner stage.