Cetuximab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Stage IIIB or Stage IV Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well cetuximab works in treating patients with recurrent or stage IIIB or stage IV lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab
Objective Response Rate (Proportion of Patients With Objective Response), Response was evaluated using RECIST 1.0 criteria. Per RECIST criteria, Complete response (CR)= disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions Partial response (PR)= \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions from baseline, and persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits. Objective response = CR + PR., Assessed every 8 weeks during treatment; after off-treatment, every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from registration to death., Every week during treatment; after off-treatment, every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years|Time to Progression, Time to progression is defined as time from study entry until disease progression. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s) or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions., Assessed every 8 weeks during treatment; after off-treatment, every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years|Overall Survival by Smoking Status, Medians of overall survival by smoking status are reported., Overall survival assessed every week during treatment; after off-treatment, every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years. Smoking status evaluated at baseline|Time to Progression by Smoking Status, Medians of time to progression by smoking status are reported., Progression assessed every 8 weeks during treatment; after off-treatment, every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years. Smoking status evaluated at baseline
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the objective response rate in patients with recurrent or stage IIIB or IV bronchoalveolar carcinoma (BAC) or adenocarcinoma of the lung with BAC features treated with cetuximab.

Secondary

* Determine the overall survival and time to progression in patients treated with this drug.
* Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients.
* Correlate expression of total and phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), total and phosphorylated AKT3, and total and phosphorylated MAPKinase with response in patients treated with this drug.
* Determine whether the presence of polymorphisms or mutations in the EGFR gene influences response in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours once on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

ACTUAL ACCRUAL: A total of 72 patients were accrued for this study.