Biomarker Correlates of Hypoxia in Metastatic Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to determine if magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET) imaging can be used to help doctors determine how much oxygen a tumor is getting. Hypoxyprobe will be used to determine the levels of oxygen post-surgery in the current study. If the study is successful, then imaging can be used to determine a tumor's oxygen status even in patients who are not getting surgery.

Investigators want to find out how much oxygen is in the participants tumor based on how much pimo is present, and correlate this with the results of their MRI and 18F-fluoromisonidazole (FMISO) PET scan.

This study is also testing the investigational radioactive substance known as FMISO. FMISO is used during PET scans to help doctors see how much oxygen a tumor is getting. Participants might be asked to participate in an optional PET scan using FMISO.
Melanoma|Skin Cancer
DRUG: Pimonidazole hydrochloride (Hypoxyprobe™-1)|DRUG: Optional 18F-FMISO PET scan (18F-fluoromisonidazole)|PROCEDURE: Surgical Resection of Melanoma Metastases
Percentage of Positive Biomarker Staining by Applicable Area, Relationship between MRI and/or FMISO-PET imaging features and pimonidazole staining by immunohistochemical analysis in melanoma metastases. Investigators expect that the correlation between them is at least 0.45. With a 5% significance level, a total of 36 participants will provide 81% power to test a null hypothesis correlation of 0 versus an alternative hypothesis correlation of 0.45 using a two-sided test., 6 weeks per participant
A pilot phase II imaging study to determine hypoxia in melanoma.

About 16 - 24 hours before surgery, participants will be asked to come to the study center to take the investigational agent oral pimonidazole (pimo) by mouth. Pimo is a substance that is able to enter tissue when there are low levels of oxygen present (hypoxia). When the tissue is removed and visualized under a microscope, the amount of pimo present is related to the amount of oxygen in that part of the tissue. The dose of pimo given to the participant will depend on their weight (13 mg pimo/kg body weight).

After surgery, a sample of the participant's tumor tissue will be viewed by doctors under a microscope to determine the amount of pimo present.