Saracatinib in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Locally Advanced Breast Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase II trial is studying saracatinib to see how well it works in treating patients with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Saracatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth
Estrogen Receptor-negative Breast Cancer|Male Breast Cancer|Progesterone Receptor-negative Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: saracatinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR defined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) \> 24 weeks. Simon's two-stage optimal design was used to estimate the DCR of AZD0530 after 24 weeks of therapy since this design allowed for early termination of the study. Response and progression was evaluated in this study using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Target lesions: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, After 24 weeks of study therapy
Overall Response Rate (CR and PR), Overall Response rate is defined as the sum of the complete response rate and partial response rate. Response and progression was evaluated in this study using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Target lesions: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, From start of treatment to 24 weeks after completion of study treatment|Median Time to Treatment Failure, From the start of treatment up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the disease control rate of AZD0530 (saracatinib) in patients with metastatic breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the efficacy of AZD0530 in terms of overall response rate (complete and partial response) and progression free survival.

II. To describe the toxicity profile of AZD0530 in this patient population. III. To prospectively explore changes in circulating tumor cells from pre-treatment levels in patients receiving AZD0530.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive saracatinib orally (PO) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks.