18F-Fluorocholine for the Detection of Parathyroid Adenomas
The investigators are studying the ability of F18 labeled fluorocholine PET to localize parathyroid adenomas in patients with hyperparathyroidism prior to surgery.
Hyperparathyroidism, Primary
DRUG: 18F-Fluorocholine|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography (PET)
Proportion of True Positives for the Overall Detection of the Abnormal Parathyroid Adenoma, The true positive (sensitivity) rate is defined as the proportion of participants with location of the suspected adenoma on 18F-Fluorocholine PET correlating with location of an abnormal parathyroid at time of participant surgery. For a patient with multiple hyperplastic glands, only one gland needs to correlate for the patient to count as a true positive. For analysis, adenomas described as arising in the mid thyroid bed will considered correct if located in either the inferior or superior bed. Patients will be followed-up to determine if they undergo a parathyroidectomy for up to 1 year., Up to 1 year|Proportion of True Positives for the Detection of the Abnormal Parathyroid Adenoma Using Sestamibi Imaging, The true positive (sensitivity) rate is defined as the proportion of participants with location of the suspected adenoma on 18F-Fluorocholine PET correlating with location of an abnormal parathyroid at time of participant surgery. For a patient with multiple hyperplastic glands, only one gland needs to correlate for the patient to count as a true positive. In patients who had a sestamibi study performed prior to the fluorocholine imaging study, the original dictated report from the sestamibi will be used for comparison. For analysis, adenomas described as arising in the mid thyroid bed will considered correct if located in either the inferior or superior bed. Patients will be followed-up to determine if they undergo a parathyroidectomy for up to 1 year., Up to 1 year
Detection Rate in Patients Who Have Not Undergone Surgical Resection, The detection rate is defined as the proportion of participants with a 18F-fluorocholine PET positive read who do not subsequently undergo parathyroidectomy, using the dictated reports to determine the detection sensitivity for parathyroid adenomas. Patients will be followed-up to determine if they undergo a parathyroidectomy for up to 1 year., Up to 1 year
The investigators are studying the ability of F18 labeled fluorocholine PET to localize parathyroid adenomas in patients with hyperparathyroidism prior to surgery.