Rilotumumab in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer, Fallopian Tube Cancer, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well rilotumumab works in treating patients with ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer that has failed to respond to other therapies (persistent) or has returned after a period of improvement (recurrent). Rilotumumab is a type of drug called a monoclonal antibody, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread by targeting certain cells and blocking them from working.
Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Rilotumumab
Proportion of Patients With Objective Tumor Response Rate (Complete Response [CR] or Partial Response [PR]) Using RECIST Version 1.1, Complete and Partial Tumor Response by RECIST 1.1. RECIST 1.1 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm and the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Only those patients who have measurable disease present at baseline, have received at least one cycle of therapy, and have had their disease re-evaluated will be considered evaluable for response. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle during treatment then every 3 months thereafter until disease progression is confirmed; also repeat at any time if clinically indicated up to 5 years.|Progression-free Survival > 6 Months Using RECIST 1.0, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the period from study entry until disease progression, death, or the last date of contact. Progression was based on RECIST 1.1. RECIST 1.1 defines progressive disease as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions is also considered progression., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle during treatment then every 3 months thereafter until disease progression is confirmed; up to 6 months.
Incidence of Adverse Effects (Grade 3 or Higher) as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Number of participants with a maximum grade of 3 or higher during the treatment period., Assessed every cycle while on treatment, 30 days after the last cycle of treatment|Duration of Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., Every cycle during treatment, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually for the next 5 years.|Duration of Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the period from study entry until disease progression, death, or the last date of contact. Progression was based on RECIST 1.1. RECIST 1.1 defines progressive disease as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions is also considered progression., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle during treatment then every 3 months thereafter until disease progression is confirmed; also repeat at any time if clinically indicated up to 5 years.
Biomarker Panel From Tumor Tissue, A panel of biomarkers from fixed and embedded tumor tissue will be tested for association with measures of response to treatment including PFS and OS., Baseline|Circulating Levels of HGF/Scatter Factor (SF), Exploratory analyses will be conducted to assess the possible effects of the study regimen on the biomarkers of interest as well as associations between the biomarkers and clinical outcome (such as PFS and OS)., Up to 1 day prior to course 2|Circulating Levels of Markers of Angiogenesis, Exploratory analyses will be conducted to assess the possible effects of the study regimen on the biomarkers of interest as well as associations between the biomarkers and clinical outcome (such as PFS and OS)., Up to 1 day prior to course 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the proportion of patients who survive progression-free for at least 6 months and the proportion of patients who have objective tumor response (complete or partial) in patients with persistent or recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events associated with treatment with AMG 102 (rilotumumab) as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

II. To determine the duration of progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the association between a panel of biomarkers (as assayed by immunohistochemistry and mutation analysis) and measures of response to treatment with AMG 102 (rilotumumab) and clinical outcome in archived tumor tissue.

II. To evaluate circulating pre- and post-treatment levels of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor and markers of angiogenesis and their association with response to treatment with AMG 102 (rilotumumab) and clinical outcome.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive rilotumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 14. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.