Sirolimus and Cyclophosphamide in Metastatic or Unresectable Myxoid Liposarcoma and Chondrosarcoma
Chondrosarcoma and liposarcoma consists of different subtypes with a wide range of patient survival. Current treatment options consist of wide surgical resection, however for patients with a local recurrence or metastatic disease the outcome is poor. New treatment options being evaluated and mouse models show in vivo that mammilian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibition can prevent tumour growth. mTOR is an kinase that is present in two complexes and thereby activates multiple pathways. Aberrant mTOR signalling is known to be involved in cancer cell survival. Several clinical studies for patients with bone or soft tissue sarcoma treated with mTOR inhibitors have been conducted and they show promising results. From these studies the investigators can conclude that the combination of an mTOR inhibitor with cyclophosphamide shows promising results in chondrosarcoma. With the lack of other treatment options for unresectable and metastatic chondrosarcoma or myxoid liposarcoma the Eurosarc consortium (www.eurosarc.eu) decided to treat these patients in a standardised way according to a common protocol with the combination of sirolimus and cyclophosphamide using the growth modulation index for evaluation in the current clinical study protocol.
Conventional Chondrosarcoma|Myxoid Liposarcoma|Mesenchymal Chondrosarcoma|Dedifferentiated Chondrosarcoma
DRUG: sirolimus and cyclophosphamide
The time to progression after start of treatment combination treatment of sirolimus and cyclophosphamide, 16 weeks
Comparing pre-treatment tumor material and tumor material taken during treatment using immunohistochemistry to compare activation of the pS6, Bcl-2 and mTor pathway and DNA analysis for taqman analysis to search for hotspot mutations., 8 weeks|Register adverse events to evaluate the patient safety and tolerability of the sirolimus and cyclophosphamide combination in myxoid liposarcoma and chondrosarcoma, every 8 weeks until progression (average of 1 year)|To evaluate the response according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1, every 8 weeks until progression (average of 1 year)|Using the growth modulation index (GMI) to evaluate treatment efficiency, GMI: Time to progression during sirolimus/cyclophosphamide treatment (TTP2) divided by time to progression before start of this treatment TTP1, every 8 weeks until progression (average of 1 year)|The overall survival after start of treatment till death, every 8 weeks until progression (average of 1 year)
Chondrosarcoma and liposarcoma consists of different subtypes with a wide range of patient survival. Current treatment options consist of wide surgical resection, however for patients with a local recurrence or metastatic disease the outcome is poor. New treatment options being evaluated and mouse models show in vivo that mammilian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibition can prevent tumour growth. mTOR is an kinase that is present in two complexes and thereby activates multiple pathways. Aberrant mTOR signalling is known to be involved in cancer cell survival. Several clinical studies for patients with bone or soft tissue sarcoma treated with mTOR inhibitors have been conducted and they show promising results. From these studies the investigators can conclude that the combination of an mTOR inhibitor with cyclophosphamide shows promising results in chondrosarcoma. With the lack of other treatment options for unresectable and metastatic chondrosarcoma or myxoid liposarcoma the Eurosarc consortium (www.eurosarc.eu) decided to treat these patients in a standardised way according to a common protocol with the combination of sirolimus and cyclophosphamide using the growth modulation index for evaluation in the current clinical study protocol.