Umbilical Cord Blood Transplant, Cyclophosphamide, Fludarabine, and Total-Body Irradiation in Treating Patients With Hematologic Disease
This phase II trial studies how well giving an umbilical cord blood transplant together with cyclophosphamide, fludarabine, and total-body irradiation (TBI) works in treating patients with hematologic disease. Giving chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, and TBI before a donor umbilical cord blood transplant helps stop the growth of cancer and abnormal cells and helps stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil after transplant may stop this from happening.
Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Burkitt Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Follicular Lymphoma|Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelofibrosis|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma|Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Anemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cyclosporine|PROCEDURE: Double-Unit Umbilical Cord Blood Transplantation|DRUG: Fludarabine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation|PROCEDURE: Umbilical Cord Blood Transplantation|DRUG: Thiotepa
Overall Survival, Overall survival defined as patient being alive at 1 year post-transplant. Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., 1 year post-transplant
Change in Level of Chimerism at Multiple Time Points, Peripheral blood chimerism studies (sorted for CD3, CD14, CD33, CD56 cells) were collected for all UCBT recipients for days 28, 56, 80, 365, and 730 post-transplant. The combined median of the percent donor, along with full range, is captured to show change in level of chimerism at multiple time points up to 2 years post-transplant. Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., Baseline up to 2 years post-transplant|Incidence of Transplant-related Mortality (TRM), Defined as death due to complication (other than relapse) within 6 months following UCBT. Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., At 6 months post-transplant|Neutrophil Engraftment, Neutrophil engraftment after UCBT is defined as the first day of absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 5 x 10⁸/L for 3 consecutive measures. Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., Up to day 42 post-transplant|Platelet Engraftment, Platelet (PLT) engraftment after UCBT is defined as the first day of platelet count \> 20,000/μl without subsequent transfusions for 7 days. Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., Up to 6 months post-transplant|Event of Grade II-IV and III-IV Acute Graft-versus-host Disease (aGVHD), Each event of aGVHD will be assigned an overall aGVHD score based on extent of skin rash, volume of diarrhea, and maximum bilirubin level, per protocol Appendix I, "GVHD Staging and Grading." Scores reported range from most mild at 2, to worse at 4. Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., Up to day 100 post-transplant|Event of Chronic Graft-verses-host-disease (cGVHD), Each event of cGVHD level will be assessed overall as either 'Limited' (mild and with single organ involvement) or 'Extensive' (involvement of two or more organs with symptoms) based on extent of skin rash, volume of diarrhea, and maximum bilirubin level, per protocol Appendix I, "GVHD Staging and Grading." Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., Up to 2 years post-transplant|Event of Clinically Significant Infections, Each event of infection will be assessed to determine whether or not it is clinically significant. An infection is defined as clinically significant when it is scored as ≥ grade 3 (where worse outcomes are associated with higher grading) in accordance with the CTCAE version 3.0/protocol Appendix VI, and constitutes a Serious Adverse Event (SAE). Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., Up to 2 years post-transplant|Incidence of Relapse, Relapse is defined as post-transplant disease recurrence in participants who had initially recovered or improved, with incidence measured from Day 0 to 1 year post-transplant, and from 1 year post-transplant to 2 years post-transplant. Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts., At 1 and 2 years post-transplant|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time (in days) from UCBT until the disease progresses or the patient dies from any cause, with incidence measured up to 2 years post-transplant. Monitoring will take place separately for the single and double UCBT cohorts. Measure will be reported as the median amount of days from full minimum and maximum range., Up to 2 years post-transplant
OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive myeloablative conditioning comprising fludarabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days -8 to -6, cyclophosphamide IV on days -7 and -6, and undergo high-dose TBI twice daily (BID) on days -4 to -1. Patients then undergo single- or double-unit UCBT on day 0.

ARM II: Patients receive myeloablative conditioning comprising fludarabine IV over 30-60 minutes on days -6 to -2, cyclophosphamide IV on day -6, thiotepa IV over 2-4 hours on days -5 and -4, and middle-intensity TBI once daily (QD) on days -2 and -1. Patients then undergo single- or double-unit UCBT on day 0.

Patients receive GVHD prophylaxis comprising cyclosporine IV over 1 hour every 8 or 12 hours, then cyclosporine orally (PO) (if tolerated), on days -3 to 100 with taper on day 101. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV every 8 hours on days 0 to 7 and then PO (if tolerated) three times daily (TID) on days 8-30. Mycophenolate mofetil is tapered to BID on day 30 or 7 days after engraftment if there is no acute GVHD, and then tapered over 2-3 weeks beginning on day 45 (or 15 days after engraftment if engraftment occurred \> day 30) after engraftment if there continues to be no evidence of acute GVHD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years.