Preoperative and Postoperative Imatinib Mesylate Study in Patients With c-Kit Positive GIST
Primary objectives

1. To determine whether induction of apoptosis or inhibition of angiogenesis are involved in the antitumor activity of (Gleevec, Formerly STI-571) in patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) as assessed by Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scanning.
2. To determine whether dynamic computed tomography (CT), PET scan, molecular and histopathologic responses in GIST tumors from patients treated with Gleevec predict Disease-Free Survival (DFS) time.

Secondary objectives

1. To determine the disease free survival of patients with resectable or partially resectable gastrointestinal stromal tumors treated with Gleevec preoperatively and continued for 2 years after resection of disease.
2. To assess the safety and tolerability of Gleevec given to patients with GI stromal tumors 3, 5, or 7 days preoperatively and continued postoperatively.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
DRUG: Imatinib Mesylate (Gleevec)
Disease-free survival (DFS) time, Effect of drug imatinib mesylate on gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST) by disease-free survival (DFS) time, measured from the start of Gleevec therapy, among the three arms to disease progression or 2 years postoperative therapy, measured in months., Baseline start of therapy to 2 years postoperative Gleevec or disease progression.
Imatinib mesylate is a drug that may help to kill gastrointestinal stromal tumor cells.

Around 3 weeks before your scheduled surgery, you will have a PET scan, a CT scan and two to three tablespoons of blood will be collected. These are imaging tests and are being done to check on the status of the disease. These tests will be repeated the day before your scheduled surgery. If your doctor feels it is necessary, you will have a chest x-ray and 2 to 3 tablespoons of blood will be collected for routine tests. Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

Before treatment, you will also have a biopsy procedure of the tumor performed. This biopsy is being done to study the effect of imatinib mesylate on the tumor cells. The tissue that is collected during the biopsy procedure will be compared to the tumor that is taken out at the time of surgery.

You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of three groups. One group will begin taking imatinib mesylate two times a day by mouth starting 7 days before surgery. The second group will start taking imatinib mesylate 5 days before surgery. Participants in the third group will begin taking imatinib mesylate 3 days before surgery. After your surgery, the removed tumor will be studied and compared to the tissue collected before surgery to see what effect (if any) imatinib mesylate had on the tumor. All patients will then continue imatinib mesylate for 2 years after surgery.

You will take imatinib mesylate two times a day for 2 years.

If you develop any side effects to the study drug, treatment may be temporarily stopped or the dose of the drug changed until the symptoms are gone. If the disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects, you will be taken off the study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

You will be seen by a physician regularly after surgery. Two to three tablespoons of blood will be collected once a month for routine tests, and a you will have a CT scan done every 3 months. These tests will help us determine if your cancer has come back.

THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY. Imatinib mesylate is FDA approved and is commercially available. Up to 48 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.