A Phase II Study of Rapamycin and Trastuzumab for Patients With HER-2 Receptor Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
Rapamune (generic name: Sirolimus®) is a drug that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (government) for use in patients receiving a kidney transplant to prevent the patient's body from rejecting the transplanted kidney. It has shown antitumor effects in the laboratory, but has not been approved at this time for the treatment of cancer. Herceptin is a new form of chemotherapy that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of breast cancer.

This study is designed to evaluate the effect and safety of combining Rapamune and Herceptin on breast cancer. Rapamune and Herceptin are being combined because results from our laboratory studies suggest that the combination of the two drugs is superior to either drug used alone. Results from laboratory studies performed at other institutions suggest that adding Rapamune to Herceptin may also reverse the resistance to Herceptin. Although there has been extensive experience using Herceptin alone and Rapamune alone in human subjects, the combination of Herceptin and Rapamune has not been previously evaluated. In addition, we hope to better understand how these treatments work against an individual woman's tumor by analyzing tissue samples before, and during treatment.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Rapamycin|DRUG: Trastuzumab
Proportion of Patients Who Are Progression-free (CR, PR and Stable Disease), To determine the clinical activity of oral daily rapamycin administered in combination with weekly intravenous trastuzumab in patients with HER2 overexpressing advanced breast cancer, the primary outcome is to determine the proportion of patients who are progression-free at 16 weeks, defined by complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD).who are progression free at 16 weeks, defined by complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD). Response objectives assessed using response evaluation criteria (RECIST) 1.0

This primary outcome was reworded from its original format when results were entered., 16 weeks
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was determined according to RECIST criteria, duration of response, and time to progression in patients with HER2 overexpressing advanced breast cancer receiving trastuzumab and rapamycin. The objective response rate (ORR) by response evaluation criteria (RECIST) 1.0, duration of response, safety, and pharmacodynamic endpoints.

This secondary outcome measure was reworded from its original submission when results were entered., study completion up to 58 weeks|Incidence of Cardiac Dysfunction, This safety measure was used to determine the number of patients treated with the combination of trastuzumab and rapamycin with cardiac dysfunction.

This secondary outcome measure was reworded from its original version when results were entered., study completion up to 58 weeks|To Determine Pre and Post Therapy Changes in the Levels, Phosphorylation Status and/or Subcellular Localization of the Affected Signal Transduction Molecules HER2, Akt, S6K and 4EBP1 in Blood and Tumor Tissues, These data were not collected and analyzed as described here in the initial protocol submission., Upon completion of study|To Determine if Currently Available RNA Expression Profiles Associated With Response to Herceptin Will be Predictably Altered in Tumors Treated With Trastuzumab and Rapamycin, and Will Further Elucidate the Mechanism of Synergy of These Two Agents, study completion|To Evaluate the Use of FDG-PET as an Early Predictor of Response to the Combination of Rapamycin and Trastuzumab, be Assessing Changes in Glucose Metabolism and Cell Viability Between Pre- and Post-treatment, Upon completion of study
Rapamune (generic name: Sirolimus®) is a drug that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (government) for use in patients receiving a kidney transplant to prevent the patient's body from rejecting the transplanted kidney. It has shown antitumor effects in the laboratory, but has not been approved at this time for the treatment of cancer. Herceptin is a new form of chemotherapy that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of breast cancer.

This study is designed to evaluate the effect and safety of combining Rapamune and Herceptin on breast cancer. Rapamune and Herceptin are being combined because results from our laboratory studies suggest that the combination of the two drugs is superior to either drug used alone. Results from laboratory studies performed at other institutions suggest that adding Rapamune to Herceptin may also reverse the resistance to Herceptin. Although there has been extensive experience using Herceptin alone and Rapamune alone in human subjects, the combination of Herceptin and Rapamune has not been previously evaluated. In addition, we hope to better understand how these treatments work against an individual woman's tumor by analyzing tissue samples before, and during treatment.