A Study of Atezolizumab Compared With Chemotherapy in Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Urothelial Bladder Cancer [IMvigor211]
This is a Phase III, global, multicenter, open-label, two-arm, randomized, controlled study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab compared with chemotherapy in participants with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial bladder cancer (UBC) who have progressed during or following a platinum-containing regimen. The anticipated time on study treatment is based on continued clinical benefit, i.e., until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The target sample size is 931 participants.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab (MPDL3280A) [TECENTRIQ], an engineered anti-PDL1 antibody|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Vinflunine
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as time from randomization to death from any cause., Between randomization and death due to any cause, up to approximately 25 months after first participant enrolled
Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Determined by the Investigator With Use of RECIST v1.1, PFS was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first documented progression of disease (PD) or death, whichever occurred first. PD was determined on the basis of investigator assessment with use of RECIST v1.1. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters on study (including baseline). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum of diameters had to demonstrate an absolute increase of \>/= 5 millimeters (mm)., Up to approximately 25 months after first participant enrolled|Unconfirmed Duration of Response (DOR) as Determined by the Investigator With Use of RECIST v1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first occurrence of a CR or PR, whichever came first, to first documented PD or death, whichever occurred first. Disease progression was determined on the basis of investigator assessment with use of RECIST v1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters on study (including baseline). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum of diameters must also demonstrate an absolute increase of \>/= 5 mm., Up to approximately 25 months after first participant enrolled|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., Up to approximately 46 months after first participant enrolled|Percentage of Participants With Post-Baseline Anti-therapeutic Antibodies (ATA) to Atezolizumab, Participants were considered post-baseline ATA positive if they had post-baseline ATAs to Atezolizumab that were treatment-induced or treatment-enhanced. Participants had treatment-induced ATAs if they had a baseline-negative ATA result and developed ATAs at any time after initial drug administration. Participants had treatment-enhanced ATAs if they had a baseline-positive ATA result that showed an enhanced signal that was \>/= 0.60 titer units at any time after initial drug initiation., Predose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4 and every 8 cycles thereafter; at treatment discontinuation (up to 25 months); at 120 days after last dose of atezolizumab (up to 25 months; each cycle is 21 days)|Minimum Observed Serum Atezolizumab Concentration (Cmin), Cmin was measured for all participants that received at least one dose of Atezolizumab., Predose (0 hours) on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4 and every 8 cycles thereafter; at treatment discontinuation (up to 25 months); at 120 days after last dose of atezolizumab (up to 25 months; each cycle is 21 days)|Percentage of Participants With Unconfirmed Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Determined by the Investigator With Use of Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants, who had an objective response. Objective response was defined as either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by the investigator with use of Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). Objective response in this study did not need to be a confirmed response. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. ORR=CR+PR, Up to approximately 25 months after first participant enrolled|Maximum Observed Serum Atezolizumab Concentration (Cmax), Cmax was measured for all participants that received at least one dose of Atezolizumab., 30 minutes post dose on Day 1 of Cycles 1|Change From Baseline in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality-of-Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Score: Global Health Status Scale, The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social); a global health status (GHS)/quality of life (QoL) scale; and items measuring fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, appetite loss, sleep disturbance, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties. The score range for each scale and single-item measure is 0 to 100, where higher scores indicate a higher response level (i.e., better functioning, better QoL, worse symptoms). Key scales included physical functioning, and fatigue, and GHS., Cycle 1 Day 1 (prior to any health care interaction), on Day 1 of each subsequent cycle, and at 30 days after the last treatment dose (Up to approximately 25 months; each cycle is 21 days)|Change From Baseline in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality-of-Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Score: Physical Functioning Scale, The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social); a global health status (GHS)/quality of life (QoL) scale; and items measuring fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, appetite loss, sleep disturbance, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties. The score range for each scale and single-item measure is 0 to 100, where higher scores indicate a higher response level (i.e., better functioning, better QoL, worse symptoms). Key scales included physical functioning, and fatigue, and GHS., Cycle 1 Day 1 (prior to any health care interaction), on Day 1 of each subsequent cycle, and at 30 days after the last treatment dose (Up to approximately 25 months; each cycle is 21 days)|Change From Baseline in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality-of-Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Score: Fatigue Symptom Scale, The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social); a global health status (GHS)/quality of life (QoL) scale; and items measuring fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, appetite loss, sleep disturbance, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties. The score range for each scale and single-item measure is 0 to 100, where higher scores indicate a higher response level (i.e., better functioning, better QoL, worse symptoms). Key scales included physical functioning, and fatigue, and GHS., Cycle 1 Day 1 (prior to any health care interaction), on Day 1 of each subsequent cycle, and at 30 days after the last treatment dose (Up to approximately 25 months; each cycle is 21 days)
This is a Phase III, global, multicenter, open-label, two-arm, randomized, controlled study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab compared with chemotherapy in participants with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial bladder cancer (UBC) who have progressed during or following a platinum-containing regimen. The anticipated time on study treatment is based on continued clinical benefit, i.e., until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The target sample size is 931 participants.