The Efficacy and Safety of Apatinib Combined With Etoposide in Heavily Pretreated Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The development of anti-angiogenesis drugs has led to renewed enthusiasm in lung cancer treatments. Apatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor which selectively inhibits the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2). Etoposide is an oral preparation for lung cancer which is recommended by NCCN guideline. The investigators wondered whether these two drugs have synergistic effects when treating advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients who failed to previous at least 2nd line treatments. Thus, the aim of this trial is to investigate the efficacy and safety of apatinib combined with etoposide in heavily pretreated advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: Etoposide
Progression free survival, the first day of treatment to the date that disease progression is reported, evaluated in 24 months since the treatment began
Objective Response Rate, the ratio between the number of responders and number of patients assessable for tumor response, tumor assessment every 6-8 weeks since the treatment began，up to 24 months|Overall survival, the first day of treatment to death or last survival confirm date,up to 24 months|Side effects, evaluated in the 24th month since the treatment began according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0
The development of anti-angiogenesis drugs has led to renewed enthusiasm in lung cancer treatments. Apatinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor which selectively inhibits the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2). Etoposide is an oral preparation for lung cancer which is recommended by NCCN guideline. The investigators wondered whether these two drugs have synergistic effects when treating advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients who failed to previous at least 2nd line treatments. Thus, the aim of this trial is to investigate the efficacy and safety of apatinib combined with etoposide in heavily pretreated advanced non-small cell lung cancer.