Stem Cell Transplant to Treat Patients With Favorable or Intermediate Risk Minimal Residual Disease Negative Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well autologous stem cell transplant works in treating patients with favorable or intermediate risk, minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative, acute myeloid leukemia. Giving chemotherapy before a peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps kill any cancer cells that are in the body. After treatment, stem cells are collected from the patient's blood and stored. Higher dose chemotherapy is then given to prepare the bone marrow for the stem cell transplant. The stem cells are then returned to the patient to replace the blood-forming cells that were destroyed by the chemotherapy.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Minimal Residual Disease Negativity
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Etoposide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Relapse, Proportion of patients who relapse, as defined by 2017 National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN ) Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) guidelines., Assessed up to 2 years post autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT)|Treatment related mortality, Number of deaths without a prior relapse (unrelated to disease), From first dose of study therapy to day +100
Disease-free survival, Proportion of patients living without relapse, Assessed up to 4 years post-ASCT|Overall survival, Proportion of patients living with or without relapse, Assessed up to 4 years post-ASCT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the estimated probability of relapse at 2 years after autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplant.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the probability of transplant-related mortality (TRM) at 100 days following autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT).

II. Estimate probabilities of overall and disease-free survival. III. Assess if biological and molecular correlative studies can predict better outcome.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive targeted busulfan intravenously (IV) or oral (PO) every 6 hours on days -7 to -4 and etoposide IV on day -3. Patients then undergo autologous stem cell transplant on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up yearly for 2 years.