Etanercept in Treating Young Patients With Idiopathic Pneumonia Syndrome After Undergoing a Donor Stem Cell Transplant
This phase II trial is studying how well etanercept works in treating young patients with idiopathic pneumonia syndrome after undergoing a donor stem cell transplant. Etanercept may be effective in treating patients with idiopathic pneumonia syndrome after undergoing a donor stem cell transplant.
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Childhood Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Disseminated Neuroblastoma|Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Previously Treated Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Pulmonary Complications|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Small Noncleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Wilms Tumor and Other Childhood Kidney Tumors|Recurrent/Refractory Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Myelodysplastic Syndromes
BIOLOGICAL: etanercept|DRUG: methylprednisolone
Response of IPS (Idiopathic Pneumonia Syndrome) to Etanercept Plus Corticosteroid Therapy by Day 28., Response to therapy is defined as survival to Day 28 of study, PLUS complete discontinuation all supplemental oxygen support by Day 28 of study. Subjects must be able to remain off all supplemental oxygen support for \> 72 consecutive hours. Subjects who discontinue supplemental oxygen within the last 72 hours of the observation period will be followed until they have completed 72 consecutive hours off oxygen or failed prior to assessing response., At day 28
Survival Rate, Estimated Day 56 survival rate following initiation of etanercept + corticosteroid therapy for patients with IPS., Up to day 56|Estimate Percentage Pulmonary Response in Patients With IPS Treated With Etanercept + Corticosteroid Therapy, Pulmonary response is defined as alive \& come off of oxygen ., up to day 56|Toxicity of Etanercept Plus Corticosteroid Therapy Using the Common Terminology Criteria Version 4.0, Grade 3-5 organ toxicities attributable to etanercept., Up to 56 days|Plasma Cytokine IL6 Level, Estimated mean and standard error of IL6 level, From baseline to days 7 and 28|C-reactive Protein Levels, Estimated mean and standard deviation, From baseline to days 7, 14, 21, and 28
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate, defined as survival and complete discontinuation of supplemental oxygen at day 28, in pediatric patients with acute noninfectious pulmonary dysfunction (idiopathic pneumonia syndrome \[IPS\]) after undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation treated with etanercept.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the day 56 survival rate in patients treated with this drug. II. Determine the overall survival distribution in patients treated with this drug.

III. Determine the pulmonary response, as defined as the time to discontinuation of supplemental oxygen, in patients treated with this drug.

IV. Evaluate the toxicity of etanercept therapy in patients with IPS. V. Evaluate levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, in both bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and serum, in patients with IPS.

VI. Describe C-reactive protein (CRP) levels at baseline, day 7, 14, 21, and 28 and their association with response in patients with IPS.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized, multicenter study.

Patients receive etanercept IV over 30 minutes on day 0 and subcutaneously on days 3, 7, 10, 14, 17, 21, and 24. Treatment continues in the absence of an infectious pathogen, disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive methylprednisolone (or corticosteroid equivalent) IV on days 0-2 and then orally with a taper until day 56.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.