Pembrolizumab in Combination With CRT for LA-SCCHN
This is a single-arm, multi-site, open-label trial of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) used in combination with standard, cisplatin-based, definitive chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in patients with stage III-IVB squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). Approximately 39 patients with Stage III-IVB SCCHN will be enrolled to evaluate both the safety and efficacy of this novel combination. Subjects will not be randomized and will all receive the study treatment.

Treatment will consist of a loading dose of pembrolizumab 200 mg IV given 7 days prior to initiation of CRT (day-7). CRT with cisplatin 40 mg/m2 IV weekly and head and neck radiation at 70 Gy fractionated at 2 Gy once daily over 35 days, will begin on day 1. CRT will end on approximately day 46-50. Pembrolizumab 200 mg IV will continue following CRT in an adjuvant fashion starting on day 57 for an additional 5 doses, as tolerated, through day 141. Subjects will be evaluated for response following treatment.
Head and Neck Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oral Cavity Cancer|Oropharynx Cancer|Hypopharynx Cancer|Larynx Cancer|Laryngeal Cancer
DRUG: pembrolizumab (MK-3475)|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Radiation
Adverse Events Will be Assessed and Graded Using CTCAE 4.0. Occurrences With Max Grade and Percentage/Number of Participants Affected by AEs Will be Provided., To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab given in combination with cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy (CRT) in subjects with treatment naive Stage III-IVB squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN).

Number of participants affected by AEs will be reported by grade and percentage of participants affected.

Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of all relevant parameters including adverse events (AEs), laboratory tests, and vital signs. Count and percentage of AE will be provided., through day 240 (this time frame allows capturing of AEs that occurred up to 90 days after completion of treatment)
Evaluation of the Efficacy of Pembrolizumab Given in Combination With Definitive CRT by Determining the Number of Participants With Complete Response at Treatment End (Day 150), Response was determined using a composite end point of overall end-of-treatment (EOT) complete response (CR) at day 150 (approximately 12 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy) by CT of the neck (RECIST 1.1).

Optional positron emission tomography (PET) imaging was allowed rather than neck dissection if CT could not confirm CR. Complete metabolic response was assessed using Hopkins score of 1, 2, or 3 on PET imaging. For those without an imaging CR, pathologic confirmation was recommend (but not required) by selective neck dissection and/or directed biopsy of the suspected active disease site. If pathologic evaluation of the potential disease site confirmed no residual invasive or in situ cancer, the patient was determined to have a pathologic CR. In cases with both an imaging CR and pathologic response assessment, the pathologic response defined final overall response. Therefore, patients with a final EOT CR included those with either an imaging (CT or PET) or pathologic CR., Day 150 (post treatment imaging)
Each subject will participate in the trial from the time the subject signs the Informed Consent Form (ICF) through the final protocol-specified contact. After a screening phase of 28 days, eligible subjects will receive treatment on Day -7 with a loading dose of the study drug. This will continue during concurrent therapy with cisplatin and radiation, which will begin on day 1. Treatment will continue until completion of therapy, documented confirmed disease progression, unacceptable adverse event(s), intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment, investigator's decision to withdraw the subject, subject withdraws consent, pregnancy of the patient, noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure requirements; or administrative reasons. After the end of treatment, each patient will be followed for 30 days for adverse event monitoring (serious adverse events will be collected for 90 days after the end of treatment or 30 days after the end of treatment if the patient initiates new anticancer therapy, whichever is earlier). Subjects who discontinue for reasons other than disease progression will have post-treatment follow-up for disease status until end of study disease progression, initiating a non-study cancer treatment, withdrawing consent, or becoming lost to follow-up. All subjects will be followed by telephone for overall survival until death, withdrawal of consent, or the Investigator is notified by Sanford Research to discontinue follow-up