Multimedia Self-Management Intervention for Lung Cancer Surgery Family Caregivers and Patients
This randomized phase III trial studies how well a multimedia self-management intervention works in preparing family caregivers and patients with stage I-III lung cancer for lung cancer surgery. The multimedia self-management intervention, Preparing for your Lung Cancer Surgery, is a nurse-led, caregiver-based, multimedia intervention that may improve patient recovery after surgery, lower caregiving burden, and improve distress and quality of life.
Caregiver|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IA Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v7
OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Media Intervention|OTHER: Media Intervention
Change in Family Caregiver Psychological Distress (as Measured by the Distress Thermometer), Mean caregiver psychological distress scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in psychological distress between the intervention and control arm over time.

Score range: 0-10. Higher score means worse outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Change in Caregiving Burden (as Measured by the Montgomery Borgatta Caregiver Burden Scale), Mean caregiver burden scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in burden between the intervention and control arm over time. The model included treatment arm, time, and the interaction between treatment arm and time as effects.

Total burden score is calculated by summing items from 3 subscales: objective burden, subjective burden \& demand burden.

Score range: 14-70. Higher score means worse outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Change in Preparedness for Caregiving (as Measured by the Preparedness for Caregiving Scale), Mean caregiver preparedness scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in preparedness between the intervention and control arm over time.

Score range: 0-4. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured before surgery (baseline), 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Change in Family Caregiver Quality of Life (as Measured by the City of Hope-Quality of Life-Family (COH-QOL-Family), Mean caregiver QoL scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in QoL between the intervention and control arm over time.

Total QoL score is calculated by summing items from 3 subscales: physical well-being, psychological well-being, social concerns \& spiritual well-being.

Score range: 0-40. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Number of Participants Who Used Family Caregiver Resource (as Measured by the Family Caregiver Healthcare Use Inventory), Differences in the number of caregivers who saw a support services specialist were compared between both groups using Chi-squared and Fisher's exact test., Outcomes are measured at discharge, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge.|Change in Patient Psychological Distress (as Measured by the Distress Thermometer), Mean patient psychological distress scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in psychological distress between the intervention and control arm over time.

Score range: 0-10. Higher score means worse outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Change in Patient Quality of Life (as Measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung - FACT-L), Mean patient QoL scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in QoL between the intervention and control arm over time.

Total FACT-L score is calculated by summing items from 5 subscales: physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being \& lung cancer subscale.

Score range: 0-136. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Number of Participants Who Used Patient Healthcare Resource Use (Home Health Nursing Care, Urgent/ER Visits, Hospital Readmissions), Differences in the number of patients who were readmitted to the hospital for an overnight stay were compared between both groups using Chi-squared and Fisher's exact test., Outcomes are measured at 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge.
Change in Family Caregiver Self-efficacy (as Measured by the Self-Efficacy Scale), Mean caregiver self-efficacy scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in self-efficacy between the intervention and control arm over time.

Score range: 1-4. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Change in Patient Self-efficacy (as Measured by the Self-Efficacy Scale), Mean patient self-efficacy scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in self-efficacy between the intervention and control arm over time.

Score range: 1-4. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Change in Family Caregiver Activation (as Measured by the FCG Activation in Transitions Tool), Mean caregiver activation scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in activation between the intervention and control arm over time.

Score range: 10-60. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Change in Patient Activation (as Measured by the Patient Activation Measure), Mean patient activation scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. A linear mixed-effects model was used to assess differences in activation between the intervention and control arm over time.

Score range: 0-100. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge. Absolute values are reported at each timeframe.|Change in Family Caregiver Knowledge (as Measured by the Surgery-Related Knowledge Tool), Mean family caregiver knowledge scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. T-tests were used to assess differences in knowledge between the intervention and control arm at different timepoints.

Score range: 0-10. Mean: 8.24 with a standard deviation of 1.19. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge|Change in Patient Knowledge (as Measured by the Surgery-Related Knowledge Tool), Mean patient knowledge scores from baseline to 3 months post-discharge were calculated. T-tests were used to assess differences in knowledge between the intervention and control arm at different timepoints.

Score range: 0-10. Mean: 8.42 with a standard deviation of 1.16. Higher score means better outcome., Outcomes are measured at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months post-discharge
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Test the effects of the multimedia self-management (MSM) intervention on family caregivers (FCG) outcomes and cancer support services use at discharge and 3-month post-discharge, comparing intervention and attention control groups.

II. Test the effects of the MSM intervention on patient outcomes and healthcare resource use at discharge and 3-months post-discharge, comparing intervention and attention control groups.

III. Test the effects of the MSM intervention on outcome mediators at discharge and 3-months post-discharge, comparing intervention and attention control groups.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore moderators (age, sex, marital status, caregiver relationship to patient, caregiver employment status, co-morbidities) of FCG and patient outcomes and reciprocal relationships.

II. Determine, through exit interviews, participant's experience with the MSM intervention.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients and FCGs receive the MSM intervention consisting of videos, a handbook, and research nurse coaching over 40-60 minutes, approximately 3-7 days before surgery and within 24 hours of planned discharge. Patients and FCGs also receive research nurse support by telephone (separate sessions for FCGs and patients) over 20-30 minutes at 2 and 7 days, and 2 months post-discharge.

GROUP II: Patients and FCGs receive attention control intervention consisting of videos (American Cancer Society video on "Clinical Trials"), American Cancer Society print materials, and assistance from a clinical research associate (CRA) approximately 3-7 days before surgery and within 24 hours of planned discharge. Patients and FCGs also receive assistance from CRAs via telephone calls at 2 and 7 days, and 2 months post-discharge.