Cilengitide in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This randomized phase II trial is studying how well cilengitide works in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Cilengitide may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth
Adult Acute Basophilic Leukemia|Adult Acute Eosinophilic Leukemia|Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)
DRUG: cilengitide
Disease-free survival (DFS), Kaplan-Meier curves will be constructed for each treatment group. Median DFS in each group and corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be estimated. The two treatment groups will be compared using log-rank test., From initiation of induction chemotherapy until the first incidence of disease or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Overall survival, Analyzed using Kaplan-Meier life table methods and Cox proportional hazard regression modeling., Up to 2 years|Toxicity of cilengitide graded using the CTC version 3, Compared between the two treatment arms using Fisher's exact test, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine 10-month relapse-free survival of patients with acute myeloid leukemia in first complete remission treated with cilengitide as maintenance therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine overall survival of patients treated with this drug. II. Determine the safety and toxicity of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the biological activity of this drug in cells from these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive cilengitide IV at a lower dose over 1 hour twice weekly for 4 weeks.

Arm II: Patients receive cilengitide IV at a higher dose over 1 hour twice weekly for 4 weeks.

In both arms, courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease relapse or unacceptable toxicity.