Study of Oxaliplatin Plus Bevacizumab in Germ Cell Tumor Patients
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of oxaliplatin and bevacizumab in patients with refractory or relapsed germ cell tumors.
Neoplasms, Germ Cell and Embryonal
DRUG: Bevacizumab and Oxaliplatin
Twelve Month Disease-free Survival Rate, The percent of patients being disease-free at 12 months after treatment initiation will be estimated with a 90% exact binomial confidence interval for the percent of patients receiving drug., 12 month post completion of treatment
Objective Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), The percent of patients having an objective response (complete or partial response) will be estimated with a 90% exact binomial confidence interval for the percent of patients receiving drug per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., completion of study, up to 5 years|Duration of Remission (CR + PR), Will be examined using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Time from earliest confirmed remission criteria until death or progression will be calculated. If a patient continued to be in remission at the end of the study, they will be censored at their last evaluation in the analysis., completion of study, up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Will be examined using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Time until death or last evaluation will be calculated. If a patient did not die, they will be censored in the analysis., completion of study, up to 5 years
This study proposes to look at the established combination of oxaliplatin and bevacizumab as used in colorectal cancer in refractory germ cell tumor patients. Oxaliplatin is a drug of known activity. Although bevacizumab has no single agent data, it combines dramatically well with numerous chemotherapy drugs, such as oxaliplatin increasing response rates and improving survival. Furthermore, VEG-F appears to be an important target in germ cell tumors as it does in so many other types of solid tumors. We will be using the identical dosages of oxaliplatin + bevacizumab as has been utilized in previously treated colorectal cancer, without the addition of 5-FU + leucovorin. This dose and schedule has been proven to be safe and effective.