NovoTTF-100A With Bevacizumab (Avastin) in Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
NovoTTF-100A is a device and Bevacizumab is a study drug that have both been approved by the FDA (Food and Drug Administration) for use as monotherapy in treating glioblastoma multiforme. The NovoTTF-l00A is a portable battery operated device which produces TTFields within the human body using surface electrodes (transducer arrays). Intermediate frequency electric fields (TTFields) stunt the growth of tumor cells.

The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy of the combination of Bevacizumab and NovoTTF-100A in Bevacizumab naive (meaning have never received bevacizumab before) patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) as measured by 6-month progression free survival.
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DEVICE: NovoTTF-l00A|OTHER: Quality of Life Assessment
Percent of Participants With 6-month Progression-free Survival (PFS6), Efficacy of therapy as measured by percent of participants with (PFS6). This trial will be considered successful if at least 20% of participants achieve PFS at 6 months. Disease progression is defined by RANO criteria. In cases where the RANO criteria cannot be applied, progression should be based on unequivocal evidence of progressive disease sufficient to require a change in therapy. The Modified RANO criteria are a set of guidelines for evaluating treatment response clinical trials. Modified RANO Response Criteria include levels of response including Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Minor Response (MR), Stable Disease (SD), or Progressive Disease., 6 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on RANO Criteria, ORR as defined by the modified Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria., 30 days after treatment completion through study completion, an average of 5 years, 9 months|Number of Participants Experiencing Grade 3/4 Toxicities Related to Therapy Combination Per by CTCAE Version 4.0., Number of participants experiencing grade 3 or 4 toxicities related to therapy combination per by CTCAE version 4.0., 5 years, 9 months|Median Overall Survival, Median overall survival (OS) in months, 30 days after treatment completion (Treatment continued until disease progression in the brain, death, or unacceptable side effects to patient)|Median Time-to-progression, Median time to progression by Kaplan Meier methodology. Disease progression is defined by RANO criteria. In cases where the RANO criteria cannot be applied, progression should be based on unequivocal evidence of progressive disease sufficient to require a change in therapy. The Modified RANO criteria are a set of guidelines for evaluating treatment response clinical trials. Modified RANO Response Criteria include levels of response including Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Minor Response (MR), Stable Disease (SD), or Progressive Disease., 30 days after treatment completion (Treatment continued until disease progression in the brain, death, or unacceptable side effects to patient)|Time to Reliable Change in Neurocognitive Function (NCF), Time to reliable change in NCF by Kaplan Meier methodology. Memory, verbal fluency, visual-motor speed, executive function and motor dexterity tests will be administered. NCF testing involves standardized psychometric instruments that are sensitive to the neurotoxic effects of cancer treatment in brain tumor clinical trials., 30 days after treatment completion (Treatment continued until disease progression in the brain, death, or unacceptable side effects to patient)|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life (QOL) as Measured by FACT-BR Score, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy including Brain Tumor module (FACT-Br) is a 54-item questionnaire that has four areas of cumulative measurements (physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being and functional well-being) with a scale of 0-4. The FACT-Br total score ranges between 0 and 76. The higher the score, the better the quality of life., Baseline, 30 days after treatment completion (Treatment continued until disease progression in the brain, death, or unacceptable side effects to patient)|Percent of Participants With 12-month Progression-free Survival, Efficacy of therapy as measured by percent of participants with 12-month PFS. Disease progression is defined by modified RANO criteria. In cases where the modified RANO criteria cannot be applied, progression should be based on unequivocal evidence of progressive disease sufficient to require a change in therapy. The Modified RANO criteria are a set of guidelines for evaluating treatment response clinical trials. Modified RANO Response Criteria include levels of response including Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Minor Response (MR), Stable Disease (SD), or Progressive Disease., 12 months
This will be an open label Phase II trial in adults with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM). The NovoTTF-100A treatment and Bevacizumab will be administered on an outpatient basis; NovoTTF-100A treatment will be initiated in the outpatient clinic.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of the combination of bevacizumab and NovoTTF-100A in bevacizumab-naive patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) as measured by 6-month progression-free survival (PFS6).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety and tolerability of the combination of bevacizumab and Novo-TTF-100A in this patient population.

II. To evaluate overall survival in this population. III. To determine objective response rate (ORR) by modified Revised Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria in this population.

IV. To assess time-to-progression in this population. V. To assess neurocognitive function (NCF) and quality of life (QOL) in this population.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 15. Patients also undergo electric field therapy with NovoTTF-100A for at least 18 hours daily. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 28 days.