Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Before Surgery
This is a single-arm, single-center feasibility trial of patients with borderline resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma receiving chemotherapy with mFOLFIRINOX or gemcitabine / nab-paclitaxel followed by pancreatectomy.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: mFOLFIRINOX|DRUG: Gemcitabine / Nab-paclitaxel
Proportion of patients eligible enrolled, Over an 18-month period The proportion of patients who complete the protocol (neoadjuvant therapy and pancreatectomy). As described, there are certain modifications of the neoadjuvant therapy protocol that are expected and allowed. The primary feasibility outcome will be one of the following:

* Stop, main study non-feasible: 1) estimated proportion of eligible patients enrolled \<40% or 2) estimated proportion of enrolled patients who complete the protocol (neoadjuvant therapy and pancreatectomy) \<40%.
* Continue with protocol modifications: 1) estimated proportion of eligible patients enrolled between 40-59% or 2) estimated proportion of enrolled patients who complete the protocol (neoadjuvant therapy and pancreatectomy) 40-59%.
* Continue without modification: 1) estimated proportion of eligible patients enrolled equal to or greater than 60% or estimated proportion of enrolled patients who complete the protocol (neoadjuv, 18 months
Survival, Defined as percentage of patients alive at two years from enrolment., 24 months|Time to Progression, Defined as the duration of time from enrolment to time to radiological evidence of disease progression or recurrence or death, whichever comes first., 24 months from the initiation of chemotherapy (the length of the study)|Overall Complications from surgery, Occurrence of any postoperative complication (major or minor) from surgery following each patient's hospital stay and up to 90 days from the initial operation., From date of surgery (POD=0) up to 90 postoperative days (POD=90)|Pathological response to chemo-radiation treatment, Pathological response to treatment will be classified as per protocol., From the date of the first chemotherapy to the date of surgery (around 4 months)
Borderline resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma infiltrates into adjacent vascular structures to an extent such that complete macroscopic resection is technically feasible, but an R0 resection poses a challenge when surgery is the primary therapy. Therefore, a different management strategy may be beneficial.

The primary outcome of the PANCREAS trial is defined as the proportion of eligible patients enrolled in the study over an 18-month period and the proportion of patients who complete the protocol (neoadjuvant therapy and pancreatectomy). Certain modifications of the neoadjuvant therapy protocol are expected and allowed, and the primary feasibility outcome will be one of the following: stop, main study non-feasible; continue with protocol modifications; or continue without modification. A safety analysis will be performed after first 15 patients are enrolled and complete neoadjuvant therapy and surgery. Patients enrolled in this trial will undergo interventions in the following order: neoadjuvant chemotherapy, re-staging CT scan, pancreatectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy. Postoperative mortality will be recorded up to 90 days after surgery. Patients will be followed every four months with a CT scan of the chest/abdomen for two years after resection or until evidence of disease recurrence. Patients who do not undergo surgical resection will be followed for two years after accrual (duration of study period) or until evidence of disease progression or death.