Induction Chemotherapy Followed by Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy in Patients With LA-NPC
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a malignant tumor that originates in nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. It is common in southern China and Southeast Asia, but the incidence rate is low in most parts of the world. According to the World Health Organization survey, 80% of nasopharyngeal carcinomas occur in China, with high incidence in southern China, as high as 30-50/100,000, such as Guangdong, Guangxi, Hunan, and Fujian. In 2015, Chinese cancer statistics showed that there were about 60,600 new cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma in China, and the number of deaths was about 34,100. Radiation therapy is the main treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Early stage I and IIa achieved a 5-year survival rate (OS) of 90% and 84%, respectively . However, the treatment outcomes of most patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma are not ideal.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Objective response rate (ORR), To be determined by measurement of target lesions according to RECIST criteria, 3 years
Progression-Free Survival(PFS), From the date of enrollment to the date of either locally, regionally or distant failure or last follow-up, 3 years|Overall survival（OS）, From the date of enrollment to the date of death is observed or to last follow-up visit, 3 years
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) is a malignant tumor that originates in nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. It is common in southern China and Southeast Asia, but the incidence rate is low in most parts of the world. According to the World Health Organization survey, 80% of nasopharyngeal carcinomas occur in China, with high incidence in southern China, as high as 30-50/100,000, such as Guangdong, Guangxi, Hunan, and Fujian. In 2015, Chinese cancer statistics showed that there were about 60,600 new cases of nasopharyngeal carcinoma in China, and the number of deaths was about 34,100. Radiation therapy is the main treatment for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Early stage I and IIa achieved a 5-year survival rate (OS) of 90% and 84%, respectively . However, the treatment outcomes of most patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma are not ideal.