Prospective Neurobehavioral Functions in Newly-diagnosed Patients With Primary CNS Lymphoma Treated With Hyperfractionated Conformal Whole-brain Radiation Therapy Plus Simultaneous Integrated Boost
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is an uncommon disease. Conventional treatment has consisted of either whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) or methotrexate (MTX)-based combined modality therapy integrating chemotherapy with cranial irradiation in a sandwiched manner. No matter whether the dosage of MTX is high or conventional, combining chemotherapy with WBRT greatly improves intracranial tumor control and even survival outcomes. However, delayed treatment-related neurotoxicity and neurocognitive sequelae emerged as a significant debilitating complication in PCNSL patients, especially when effective combined chemoradiation can achieve disease control and long-term survival rates. Therefore, by delivering hyperfractionated conformal WBRT plus SIB, this prospective cohort study aims to accomplish both optimal intracranial control and minimal WBRT induced neurocognitive decline. Additionally, by administering objective multi-domain neurobehavioral/neurocognitive assessments, the change in neurocognitive functions (NCFs) before and after the course of hyperfractionated conformal WBRT will be investigated and analyzed.

According to the treatment guidelines for treating newly-diagnosed PCNSL patients, combined chemoradiation in which the WBRT course is sandwiched between initial courses of MTX and the later courses of chemotherapy with Ara-C is the treatment of mainstay at our institute. Employing the technique of a conformal CT treatment planning, the WBRT course is delivered in the manner of hyperfractionation with a reduced cumulative dose of 3600 cGy in 30 fractions during 3-4 weeks, administered twice daily in 1.2 Gy - fractions with at least 6 hours between fractions. By virtue of multidisciplinary management and teamwork including neurosurgery, hematology, radiation oncology, and neuroimaging expertise, it is attempted to recruit all potentially eligible patients with newly-diagnosed PCNSL. Most importantly, a professional neuropsychologist participates in this research project to integrate neurobehavioral outcomes into the prospective study. Accordingly, a battery of neuropsychological measures is used to evaluate predetermined NCFs for the studied patients. The test battery is composed of six standardized neuropsychological tests, covering four domains sensitive to disease and treatment effects (executive function, attention, verbal memory, information processing). The primary outcome measure is the change in patients' capability of information processing indicated by the Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test-Revised (PASAT-R), from the baseline before receiving the WBRT course to the follow-up after undergoing the entire courses of combined chemoradiation.

This prospective cohort study aims to thoroughly examine newly diagnosed PCNSL patients by using a standard battery of neurobehavioral/neurocognitive functions. Additionally, a better intracranial disease control is expected since the WBRT course relies on a highly conformal treatment planning integrated with the individualized arrangement of simultaneous integrated boost (SIB) to escalate the focal dose irradiating the originally involved site(s). Moreover, WBRT-related neurocognitive sequelae might be significantly less likely to occur because the WBRT course is delivered in the fashion of hyperfractionation, indicating a significantly lower dose per fraction and a reduced cumulative dose. Furthermore, it is anticipated the investigators will analyze which neurobehavioral domain would predict the treatment-related neurocognitive impacts to the largest extent in newly diagnosed PCNSL patients treated with cranial RT combined with or without MTX based chemotherapy according to the multidisciplinary treatment guidelines implemented at a single institute.
Primary CNS Lymphoma|Brain Lymphoma
RADIATION: A treatment protocol of combined chemoradiation delivered in the manner of hyperfractionated conformal whole-brain radiation therapy
The primary endpoint is the change in patients' capability of information processing, as determined by the assessment (the Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test-Revised) from baseline up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation., The Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test-Revised is an assessment of information processing, used to assess the capacity and speed of information processing, as well as sustained and divided attention., one week before the WBRT course, up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation|The primary endpoint is delayed recall, as determined by the change/decline in verbal memory (Word Sequence Learning Test) from baseline up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation., The Word Sequence Learning Test is an assessment of verbal memory. To evaluate auditory memory of verbal information without context., one week before the WBRT course, up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation|The primary endpoint is the change of executive function, as determined by three different domains assessments from baseline up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation., The Modified Card Sorting Test is an assessment of executive function, related to conceptual formation and mental shifting., one week before the WBRT course, up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation|The primary endpoint is the change of executive function, as determined by three different domains assessments from baseline up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation., The Trail Making Test is an assessment of speed and flexibility, used to measure the ability of visual attention and task switching., one week before the WBRT course, up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation|The primary endpoint is the change of executive function, as determined by three different domains assessments from baseline up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation., The Semantic Association of Verbal Fluency Test is an assessment of verbal fluency, related to frontal and temporal cortex.

A measure of the ability of phonemic and semantic variants., one week before the WBRT course, up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation|The change in attention functions from baseline up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation., Neurocognitive assessment including: Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test-Revised, one week before the WBRT course, up to 30 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation
The time from the date of recruitment to that of intracranial progression/failure noted on brain MRI, Baseline before the WBRT course; 2 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation, and follow up to 30 months|Depression Inventory questionnaires., Questionnaires include: Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). The Beck Depression Inventory is a 21-question multiple-choice self-report inventory, used psychometric tests for measuring the severity of depression.

The BDI contains 21 questions, each answer being scored on a scale value of 0 to 3. Higher total scores indicate more severe depressive symptoms. The standardized cutoffs used differ from the original:

0-13: minimal depression; 14-19: mild depression; 20-28: moderate depression; 29-63: severe depression., Baseline before the WBRT course; one month after completing the WBRT course; 2 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation, and follow up to 30 months|Anxiety Inventory questionnaires., Questionnaires include: Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI). The Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI) is a 21-question multiple-choice self-report inventory that is used for measuring the severity of anxiety in children and adults.

The BAI contains 21 questions, each answer being scored on a scale value of 0 (not at all) to 3 (severely). Higher total scores indicate more severe anxiety symptoms. The standardized cutoffs are:

0-7: minimal anxiety; 8-15: mild anxiety; 16-25: moderate anxiety; 26-63: severe anxiety., Baseline before the WBRT course; one month after completing the WBRT course; 2 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation, and follow up to 30 months|Self & family Evaluation questionnaires., Questionnaires include: National Taiwan University Irritability Scale Self Evaluation(NTUIS-Self), National Taiwan University Irritability Scale-Family Evaluation (NTUIS-Family).

The National Taiwan University Irritability Scale (NTUIS) is a self-reported scale with validated and reliable psychometric properties, to specifically evaluate irritability.

The NTUIS required patients to examine their irritability before and after disease.

The NTUIS is a 6-point Likert scale with 18 items. Each item was rated 1 (totally non-matched to patient's conditions) to 6 (totally matched to patient's conditions) with descriptions anchoring each matching level. Since "excessive emotional (e.g. anger and annoyance) and behavioural (e.g. verbal aggression) responses to stimuli" were used as the operational definition of irritability, the items considering anger, verbal aggression and annoyance were selected., Baseline before the WBRT course; one month after completing the WBRT course; 2 months after completing all courses of chemoradiation, and follow up to 30 months
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is an uncommon disease. Conventional treatment has consisted of either whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) or methotrexate (MTX)-based combined modality therapy integrating chemotherapy with cranial irradiation in a sandwiched manner. No matter whether the dosage of MTX is high or conventional, combining chemotherapy with WBRT greatly improves intracranial tumor control and even survival outcomes. However, delayed treatment-related neurotoxicity and neurocognitive sequelae emerged as a significant debilitating complication in PCNSL patients, especially when effective combined chemoradiation can achieve disease control and long-term survival rates. Therefore, by delivering hyperfractionated conformal WBRT plus SIB, this prospective cohort study aims to accomplish both optimal intracranial control and minimal WBRT induced neurocognitive decline. Additionally, by administering objective multi-domain neurobehavioral/neurocognitive assessments, the change in neurocognitive functions (NCFs) before and after the course of hyperfractionated conformal WBRT will be investigated and analyzed.

According to the treatment guidelines for treating newly-diagnosed PCNSL patients, combined chemoradiation in which the WBRT course is sandwiched between initial courses of MTX and the later courses of chemotherapy with Ara-C is the treatment of mainstay at our institute. Employing the technique of a conformal CT treatment planning, the WBRT course is delivered in the manner of hyperfractionation with a reduced cumulative dose of 3600 cGy in 30 fractions during 3-4 weeks, administered twice daily in 1.2 Gy - fractions with at least 6 hours between fractions. By virtue of multidisciplinary management and teamwork including neurosurgery, hematology, radiation oncology, and neuroimaging expertise, it is attempted to recruit all potentially eligible patients with newly-diagnosed PCNSL. Most importantly, a professional neuropsychologist participates in this research project to integrate neurobehavioral outcomes into the prospective study. Accordingly, a battery of neuropsychological measures is used to evaluate predetermined NCFs for the studied patients. The test battery is composed of six standardized neuropsychological tests, covering four domains sensitive to disease and treatment effects (executive function, attention, verbal memory, information processing). The primary outcome measure is the change in patients' capability of information processing indicated by the Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test-Revised (PASAT-R), from the baseline before receiving the WBRT course to the follow-up after undergoing the entire courses of combined chemoradiation.

This prospective cohort study aims to thoroughly examine newly diagnosed PCNSL patients by using a standard battery of neurobehavioral/neurocognitive functions. Additionally, a better intracranial disease control is expected since the WBRT course relies on a highly conformal treatment planning integrated with the individualized arrangement of simultaneous integrated boost (SIB) to escalate the focal dose irradiating the originally involved site(s). Moreover, WBRT-related neurocognitive sequelae might be significantly less likely to occur because the WBRT course is delivered in the fashion of hyperfractionation, indicating a significantly lower dose per fraction and a reduced cumulative dose. Furthermore, it is anticipated the investigators will analyze which neurobehavioral domain would predict the treatment-related neurocognitive impacts to the largest extent in newly diagnosed PCNSL patients treated with cranial RT combined with or without MTX based chemotherapy according to the multidisciplinary treatment guidelines implemented at a single institute.