68Ga-FAP-RGD PET/CT : Dosimetry and Preliminary Clinical Translational Studies
As an new dual targeting PET radiotracer, 68Ga-FAP-RGD is promising as an excellent imaging agent applicable to various cancers. In this study, we observed the safety, biodistribution and radiation dosimetry of 68Ga-FAP-RGD in patients with various types of cancer and compared them with the results of 68Ga-FAPI-02 or 18F-FDG imaging to evaluate the dosimetric characteristics and diagnostic efficacy of 68Ga-FAP-RGD.
Tumor
DRUG: 68Ga-FAP-RGD|DRUG: 68Ga-FAP-RGD
Human biodistribution, reported as relative uptake values per organ at 30s, 15min, 30min, 60min and 120 min per individual subject and as a mean over all subjects (Part I), From right after tracer injection to 2-hours post-injection|Human dosimetry, radiation dose to individual organs and the equivalent dose for the whole body of each subject and as a mean over all subjects (Part I). Dosimetry will be calculated using the Hybrid-Dosimetry software., From right after tracer injection to 2-hours post-injection|Standard uptake value (SUV), Determination of SUV for detected lesions and discernible organs of 68Ga-FAP-RGD and 68Ga-FAPI-02 or 18F-FDG, Up to 2 weeks|Lesion numbers, Determination of lesion numbers of 68Ga-FAP-RGD and 68Ga-FAPI-02 or 18F-FDG, Up to 2 weeks|the sensitivity of 68Ga-FAP-RGD PET/CT, compared with pathology or composite imaging, the sensitivity of 68Ga-FAP-RGD PET/CT was evaluated., Up to 2 weeks|the specificity of 68Ga-FAP-RGD PET/CT, compared with pathology or composite imaging, the specificity of 68Ga-FAP-RGD PET/CT was evaluated., Up to 2 weeks|the accuracy of 68Ga-FAP-RGD PET/CT, compared with pathology or composite imaging, the accuracy of 68Ga-FAP-RGD PET/CT was evaluated., Up to 2 weeks
Count of participants with treatment emergent adverse events, The frequency and severity of treatment emergent adverse events following 68Ga-FAP-RGD injection will be descriptively reported as classified and graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 3 days
Fibroblast activation protein (FAP) is highly expressed in the stroma of a variety of human cancers and is therefore considered promising for guiding targeted therapy. The recent development of quinoline-based PET tracers that act as FAP inhibitors (FAPIs) demonstrated promising results preclinically and already in a few clinical cases. Integrin αvβ3 is restrictedly expressed on angiogenic blood vessels and tumour cells. It plays a key role in angiogenesis for tumour growth and metastasis. RGD peptide can specifically recognise the integrin αvβ3, which serves as targeted molecular for anti-angiogenesis strategies. 68Ga-FAP-RGD is a novel dual targeting tracers. The present study aimed to evaluate the biodistribution, pharmacokinetics, and dosimetry of 68Ga-FAP-RGD, and performed a head-to-head comparison with 68Ga-FAPI-02 or 18F-FDG PET/CT scans in patients with various cancers.