Prone Patient Positioning in Reducing Tumor Motion and Improving Breathing Reproduction in Patients With Lung Cancer Undergoing Radiation Therapy
This clinical trial studies prone patient positioning in reducing tumor motion and improving breathing reproduction in patients with lung cancer undergoing radiation therapy. Prone patient positioning during radiation therapy may help kill tumor cells without harming normal tissue.
Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: computed tomography|PROCEDURE: 4-dimensional computed tomography|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Consistency of the respiratory pattern, quantified by the cycle-to-cycle variation in the respiration trace during imaging in prone vs. supine positioning, During the 4D CT patient respiration trace will be recorded using the RPM optical tracking device. The average and standard deviation of the amplitude, period, end of inhalation position, and end of exhalation position of the respiration trace will be calculated. Paired t tests and F tests will be used to evaluate differences between these quantities for supine and prone positioning., up to 90 days|Consistency of the respiratory pattern, quantified by the cycle-to-cycle variation in the respiration trace during a radiotherapy series, During the 4D CT patient respiration trace will be recorded using the RPM optical tracking device. The average and standard deviation of the amplitude, period, end of inhalation position, and end of exhalation position of the respiration trace will be calculated. Paired t tests and F tests will be used to evaluate differences between these quantities for supine and prone positioning., up to 90 days|Motion of the tumor and normal tissue evaluated in reference to the bony anatomy (vertebra), The prone and supine image data acquired before the treatment onset will be used for planning. The computation of the doses will be performed on the dataset corresponding to the average position over the breathing pattern, based on previous studies indicating that a dose computation on this dataset approximates with sufficient accuracy the dose that will be received by the patient. The distributions of the tumor and normal tissue volumes in the prone and supine scans will be derived and the volume consistency will be assessed using the mean and the standard deviation of these distributions., up to 90 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Quantify the three-dimensional tumor and normal tissue (thoracic and abdominal) motion, deformation and volume changes with the respiratory cycle during imaging in prone vs. supine positioning.

II. Quantify the three-dimensional tumor and normal tissue (thoracic and abdominal) motion, deformation and volume changes with the respiratory cycle and alterations thereof during a radiotherapy series.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo one conventional computed tomography (CT) scan and one 4 dimensional CT (4D CT) scan in both supine and prone positioning before undergoing radiation therapy.