DZD9008 In Combination With Bevacizumab in Locally Advanced or Metastatic NSCLC Patients With EGFR Mutation (WU-KONG29)
This study tests a combination therapy (i.e., DZD9008 plus bevacizumab) in patients with advanced NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations who have progressed on or after standard of care, which aims to understand whether the combination therapy is safe, how well the combination therapy works, and how the body will process DZD9008 when used in combination with bevacizumab.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: DZD9008 plus Bevacizumab
Part A: 1) Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT); 2) Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs); TEAEs ≥CTCAE grade 3; and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs). Part B: 1) TEAEs; TEAEs ≥CTCAE grade 3; and SAEs., To investigate the safety and tolerability of DZD9008 in combination with Bevacizumab in patients with locally advanced NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations. Part A is a dose escalation study to determine the recommended phase 2 combination dose of DZD9008 and Bevacizumab. Part B is a dose expansion study to further investigate the safety and tolerability of the combination therapy at the recommended phase 2 combination dose., The first treatment cycle (each cycle is 21 days) for DLT; From the first dose of study treatment to 28 days after the last dose of study treatment for TEAE; and from ICF signature to 28 days after the last dose of study treatment for SAE.
Part A: 1) Tumor response per RECIST 1.1 and 2) Plasma concentration of DZD9008 and its metabolite. Part B:1) Tumor response per RECIST 1.1; 2) Intracranial tumor response per RECISIT 1.1; 3) Plasma concentration of DZD9008 and its metabolite., To investigate the anti-tumor efficacy of DZD9008 in combination with Bevacizumab and the pharmacokinetics of DZD9008 and its metabolite DZ0753 when given in combination with Bevacizumab. The efficacy endpoints per RECIST 1.1 include Objective Response Rate (ORR), Duration of Response (DoR),Disease Control Rate (DCR), and Progression Free Survival (PFS)., From the first dose of study treatment to disease progression, death or study withdrawal, whichever occurs first; and Cycle 1/3/5/7 day 1 (each cycle is 21 days) for plasma concentration of DZD9008 and its metabolite.
A phase 2, multicenter study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and anti-tumor efficacy in patients with locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC harboring EGFR mutations. This study comprises two parts (Part A, dose escalation and Part B, dose expansion). Part A will enroll patients with different EGFR mutations. Only patients with EGFR Exon 20 insertion mutation will be enrolled into Part B.