Management of Symptomatic Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
This study assessed the feasibility and effects of an early integrative supportive care program in patient with advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma (aPDAC).
Pancreas|Management Supportive Care Program
OTHER: 14-EISCP
The rate of 14-EISCP success, The success is determined by:

Program Feasibility :

The 14-EISCP is considered feasible if the planned procedures, established during the initial consultation with the investigator, is completed within 14 days (+/- 2 days) following the first consultation, or before the start of chemotherapy if it started within 14 days.

and

Clinical Benefit at 30 days post-consultation defined by one of the following criteria:

1. An improvement of ECOG PS from ≥2 to 1 or 0.
2. A ≥5-point improvement in either fatigue, pain, or global health, as measured by the QLQ-C15-PAL, with no worsening in ECOG PS or the dimensions of fatigue, pain, and global health compared to baseline values.
3. The initiation of chemotherapy within 30 days of consultation.

If none of the above criteria (1), (2), or (3) are met, the clinical benefit was considered absent, and the outcome was classified as a failure.

The success of the 14-EISCP was defined by success of both criteria., 14 days (+/- 2 days)
Delay from the first symptom of aPDAC to the first medical appointment, Delay between first medical appointment and beginning of chemotherapy in days., Up to 2-3 months|The rate of patients with improved ECOG PS and/or clinico-biological parameters after 14-EISCP., The rate of patients with improved ECOG PS and clinico-biologic parameters (liver tests, including bilirubin) at the end of the integrative supportive care program., 14 days; at the end of the 14-EISCP|The rate of patients receiving chemotherapy and rate of patients with type of chemotherapy effectively given after the 14-EISCP., The rate of patients receiving chemotherapy and rate of patients with type of chemotherapy effectively given after the 14-EISCP., At 14 days, at 21 days, up to death|The mean change of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) score, The mean change of HRQoL (QLQ-C15-PAL) score between the beginning and the end of the 14-EISCP., at 30 days|Progression-free survival (PFS) assessment, PFS in different patient groups., up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS) assessment, OS in different patient groups., up to 2 years|The change of health-related quality of life (HRQoL), The change of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) as measured by QLQ-C15 PAL. Mean change will be used to compare QoL scores before and after the 14-EISCP., Month 1 and every two months up to two years
This is a national, multicenter, prospective study, including:

* A 14-day (+/-2 days) integrative supportive care program (14-EISCP) initiated as early as the clinical suspicion of aPDAC,
* Follow-up period after the 14-EISCP.

ECOG PS ≥2 patients with pathologically confirmed or suspected aPDAC on imaging were included at first oncology visit in the 14-EISCP including pain, nutritional, diagnostic and stenting procedures.

Post-EISCP ECOG PS ≤1 patients received mFOLFIRINOX or gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel, ECOG PS ≥2 patients received mFOLFOX7 or investigator choice chemotherapy or best supportive care.