Ultrasonic Aspiration Versus CO2 Laser Ablation for the Treatment of Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the incidence of vulva dysplasia recurrence within 12 months of treatment with Carbon Dioxide (CO2) laser ablation or ultrasonic aspiration.
Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VIN)
DEVICE: Sonopet Ultrasonic Aspirator|DEVICE: CO2 Laser Ablation
Number of Participants With Recurrence of Dysplasia, Number of participants with recurrence of dysplasia time point 12 months, 12 months
Number of Participants With Scarring, Physical evaluation for scarring, 6 weeks|Changes in Sexual Function, Evaluated by Female Sexual Function Index Scale Title: Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) Minimum value: 2.0 Maximum value: 36.0 a score of 0 in any domain correlates to no sexual activity. a score of 0 in any domain correlates to no sexual activity in that domain alone, and is not indicative of the total score. Lower scores indicate worse sexual function., Baseline (enrollment), 12 months|Changes in Mental and Physical Wellness, Evaluated by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Vulva (FACT-V) health survey for vulva disease Scale Title: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Vulva (FACT-V) High score correlates to better quality of life. This survey uses a 5-point Likert type scale. Minimum score: 0 Maximum score: 184, Baseline (enrollment), End of Study (12 months)
Incidence of Vulvar Intraepithelial Neoplasia (VIN) is increasing among women and there still lacks a standard of care for optimal treatment. Current treatment options aim to treat the symptoms associated with VIN and result in a high recurrence rate. Due to the high reoccurrence rate and the nature of the current treatments, a more effective treatment option is warranted. An effective treatment that targets only the diseased areas could potentially decrease recurrence rates. Additionally, a more conservative treatment modality could contribute to reduced risks of scarring, discomfort, and psychosocial and sexual distraught. The researchers hypothesize that treatment for VIN with ultrasonic aspiration will have a 60% reduction in recurrence rates over 12 months as compared to CO2 laser aspiration.

This study will employ a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design. This is a phase III study to determine the effectiveness of a more targeted treatment therapy for VIN (comparing ultrasonic aspiration versus CO2 laser ablation). Potential participants will be identified through the gynecological clinical practices following diagnosis of high grade VIN and will be randomized (1:1) to one of the treatment therapies. Randomization will be stratified for multi-focal disease and Human Papillomavirus (HPV) status. Both the Sonopet Ultrasonic Aspirator and the CO2 laser ablation devices are FDA approved devices for the treatment of vulvar dysplasia.