Immunotherapy in MSI/dMMR Tumors in Perioperative Setting.
This trial is a multicenter, 3-cohort, prospective, Phase II trial conducted in patients with untreated resectable MSI/dMMR carcinomas and aiming to evaluate the safety and the efficacy of ICI (immune checkpoint inhibitor) as neoadjuvant treatment in these patients.

We hypothesize that immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICPi) will benefit to MSI/dMMR tumors from the early stages, whatever their anatomical origin. We assume that this neoadjuvant treatment would improve the response rate, providing even high rate of pathological complete responses and prolong patients survival.

We anticipated colorectal and gastric cancers to be the most frequent recruited and constructed our statistical hypothesis with results in those 2 cancers. However patients with other localized MSI/dMMR tumors could be included.
Localized Resectable Tumor|MSI/dMMR
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Rate of complete pathological response (pCR) after surgery, A complete pathological response will be defined as 0% viable tumor cells., 6 weeks after first injection
Safety of the perioperative treatment, Safety profile, determined using the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (NCI-CTC AE) grading scale version 5. Adverse events will be described by their intensity and severity, 60 Months (over the whole study)|Rate of surgical complications (post-operative morbidity), The rate of surgical complications (post-operative morbidity) will be assessed according to modified Clavien Dindo scoring, 1 Month after sugery|Rate of patients with the R0 resection, Percentage of patients with the R0 resection, 60 Months|Major pathological response rate, Percentage of patients with major pathological response (≤ 10% residual viable tumor), 60 Months|Recurrence-free survival (RFS), RFS defined as the time from the date of first study treatment administration to the date of first documented recurrence, 60 Months|Overall response rate (ORR) at 4, 10, 16 and 21 weeks after the pembrolizumab initiation, Percentage of patients with objective response at week 4, 10, 16 and 21 (complete or partial response) after neoadjuvant pembrolizumab, according to RECIST v1.1., 4, 10, 16, 21 weeks after first study treatment injection|Rate of second cancer in the Lynch syndrom spectrum, Percentage of patients with second cancer, 60 Months|The overall survival (OS), OS, defined from the date of first study treatment administration to the date of death due to any cause., From 60 months|Progression-free survival (PFS) after recurrence, PFS, defined from the date of first documented recurrence to the date of documented progression., 60 months|Quality of life (QoL), QoL, assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30, Baseline,cycle 2 and 4 before surgery and 5 months after the surgery|The prognostic value of lung immune prognostic index (LIPI), 60 months|the progression free survival for patient without surgery, PFS, defined from the date of first documented recurrence to the date of documented progression., 60 months
TREATMENT PLAN:

Pre-operative pembrolizumab will be administered intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes at the dose of 400 mg according to recent summary of product characteristics (SPC). Until four doses will be administered 6 weeks before the planned surgery, as close as possible to inclusion, and whenever possible during standard visit (surgery, anesthesia or other).

Surgery will be performed during the 6th week after the last pembrolizumab injection, as per standard practices.

An adjuvant treatment will be administered upon the Investigator decision, depending on the protocol: the results and tolerance of pre-operative treatment and ability of the patient to receive the treatment regarding his general post-operative condition.

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

A total of 240 patients will be enrolled in this study

Sample size was thus evaluated by analogy with an A'Hern's single stage phase II design with P0=25%, P1=50% and 85% power.

A sequential Bayesian design will be used to allow continuous monitoring of the primary endpoint and update knowledge gradually.

For each cohort, interim analyses are planned after 6-week follow up of the first 10 patients (i.e. after surgery) and then every 10 patients.

Early stopping will be recommended if there is a high posterior probability (≥90%) given observed data that the rate of pathological response is lower than 50%.

DATA ENTRY, DATA MANAGEMENT AND STUDY MONITORING:

All the data concerning the patients will be recorded in the electronic case report form (eCRF) throughout the study. Serious adverse event (SAE) and Adverse Event of Specific Interest (AESI) reporting will be also paper-based by e-mail and/or Fax.

The sponsor will perform the study monitoring and will help the investigators to conduct the study in compliance with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practices (GCP) and local law requirements.