Phase 2 Study of Sym004 for Adult Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
The purpose of this study is to assess the activity of Sym004, a recombinant antibody mixture that specifically binds to EGFR, in patients diagnosed with recurrent glioblastoma whose tumor is EGFR amplified. This is a phase 2 study that will accrue patients with WHO grade IV recurrent malignant glioma (glioblastoma or gliosarcoma) in two cohorts to assess the efficacy of Sym004.
Malignant Glioma
DRUG: Sym004 - 18 mg/kg|DRUG: Sym004 - 24 mg/kg
Six-month Progression-free Survival (PFS6), Within each cohort, the percentage of participants alive and progression-free at 6 months after the start of Sym004 treatment will be determined. PFS6 will be calculated from the date study treatment started until the date of progression or death, or the date of last follow-up if participants are alive without progression. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate survival., 6 months
Percentage of Participants Who Experience Grade 3, 4 or 5 Adverse Events, Within each cohort, the percentage of participants who experience grade 3, 4 or 5 adverse events that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study treatment will be calculated., 2 years|Radiographic Response, Within each cohort, the percentage of participants with a complete or partial response as determined by modified Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria will be determined. Complete Response (CR) is defined as complete disappearance on MR/CT of all enhancing tumor and mass effect, off all corticosteroids (or receiving only adrenal replacement doses) and accompanied by a stable or improving neurologic examination. Partial Response (PR) is defined as greater than or equal to 50% reduction in tumor size on MR/CT by bi-dimensional measurement, on a stable or decreasing dose of corticosteroids and accompanied by a stable or improving neurologic examination. Tumor assessments are done at baseline and the end of every second cycle (every 8 weeks) thereafter., 2 years|Median Progression-free Survival (PFS), Median PFS will be estimated within each cohort. Progression-free survival is defined as the time in months from the start of protocol treatment until the date of progression or death if death occurred before progression. If the participant is alive and progression-free, PFS will be censored at the date of last follow-up. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate progression-free survival., 2 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), Median OS will be estimated within each cohort. Overall survival is defined as the time in months from the start of protocol treatment until the date of death, or the date of last follow-up if alive. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate overall survival., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to assess the activity of Sym004, a recombinant antibody mixture that specifically binds to EGFR, in patients diagnosed with recurrent glioblastoma whose tumor is EGFR amplified. The primary objective is to assess the activity of Sym004 in patients with recurrent glioblastoma that are either non-bevacizumab failures (Cohort 1) or who have previously failed bevacizumab (Cohort 2), in terms of 6-month progression-free survival (PFS6). Secondary objectives include: 1. Determine the safety of Sym004 in recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) patients; 2. Estimate response rate (RR) within the two cohorts of recurrent GBM patients; 3. Describe overall survival (OS) within the two cohorts of recurrent GBM patients; 4. Describe overall median progress free survival (PFS) within the two cohorts of recurrent GBM patients.

This is a phase 2 study that will accrue patients with WHO grade IV recurrent malignant glioma (glioblastoma or gliosarcoma) in two cohorts to assess the efficacy of Sym004. Both cohorts will accrue simultaneously, with 36 subjects in Cohort 1 and 25 subjects in Cohort 2 at a dose of 18 mg/kg Sym004 given intravenously every 2 weeks. A treatment cycle will be 4 weeks.

Twenty-five subjects have been treated at the 18 mg/kg dose of Sym004. Beginning in August 2017, the dose of Sym004 will be increased to 24 mg/kg. Sixty-five additional subjects (36 in Cohort 1 and 29 in Cohort 2) will be treated at the new dose level.