Chimeric Receptor T Cells With Trastuzumab in HER2+ Advanced Breast Cancer and Other Solid Tumors
This phase Ib study aims to assess the safety and feasibility of combination of chimeric receptor T cells with trastuzumab in patients with HER2+ solid tumors, with further expansion of study population in HER2+ metastatic breast cancer once safety has been established.
HER2+ Advanced Breast Cancer|Other Solid Tumors
DRUG: Chimeric receptor T-cells + Trastuzumab|DRUG: Fludarabine and Cyclophosphosphamide
Time to treatment failure, defined as the time from the date of study enrolment to the date of the first of the following events: early discontinuation of study therapy, progressive disease, or death due to any cause. Time to treatment failure will be censored at the date of the last follow-up visit for patients who did not discontinue early, who are still alive, and who have not progressed., 3 years|Progression-free survival, is defined as the time from the date of study enrolment to the first date of documented disease progression. Progression-free survival will be censored at the date of death for patients who have not had documented disease progression. For patients who are still alive at the time of analysis and who have not had documented disease progression, progression-free survival will be censored at the date of the last follow-up visit., 3 Years|Duration of tumour response, Among tumor responders, the duration of tumor response is measured from the date of enrolment until the first date of documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Duration of tumor response will be censored at the date of the last follow-up visit for tumor responders who are still alive and who have not progressed., 3 Years
Hypothesis

Investigators hypothesize that trastuzumab-mediated cytotoxicity will be augmented by the infusion of autologous chimeric receptor T-cells.

Primary Objectives

1. To determine the safety of autologous chimeric receptor T-cells in patients with HER2+ advanced solid tumors
2. To determine the clinical benefit rate (CBR) of autologous chimeric receptor T-cells in patients with HER2+ advanced breast cancer

Secondary Objectives

1. To determine the expansion and persistence of autologous chimeric receptor T-cells after a single infusion in patients with advanced solid tumors
2. To determine anti-tumor efficacy in terms of objective response rate (ORR) and progression-free survival (PFS) of autologous chimeric receptor T-cells in patients with HER2+ advanced breast cancer