Comparison of Laser Destruction of Pilonidal Sinus Disease (SILAC) and Bascom II Procedure.
Surgical treatment witn lateralization of intergluteal cleft is still gold standard for pilonidal sinus disaease. But nowadays minimally invasive treatment methods such as the use of a diode laser (SiLac, Sinus Laser Closure) to obliterate the coccygeal tract are used more often. The aim of the study is to compare a new minimal invasive method (laser treatment) with traditional method ( Bascom II) in terms of recurrence rate, complications and patients satisfaction with results.
Pilonidal Disease
PROCEDURE: Bascom II procedure|PROCEDURE: SiLaC
Reccurance rate, clinical picture of pilonidal sinus and/or appearance of new openings in the intergluteal cleft and/or chronic unhealing wound and/or residual cavity in the wound area as confirmed by the soft tissue ultrasound), starting from 6 months after surgery and up to 3 years after surgery]
Operative time, The length of surgery in minutes, 1 day|Bloodloss, The amount of blood lost during surgery, 1 day|Postoperative pain intensity, early postoperative period Pain intensity will be evaluated twice a day (in the morning and in the evening) with a patient-reported Visual Analog Scale (VAS) that ranges from 0 to 10 with 0 representing no pain and 10 representing intolerable pain. A total score will be recorded., On 1st, 3rd, 5th and 7th postoperative day]|Postoperative pain intensity - late postoperative period, Pain intensity will be evaluated once a day with a patient-reported Visual Analog Scale (VAS) that ranges from 0 to 10 with 0 representing no pain and 10 representing intolerable pain. A total score will be recorded., On 10th, 14th, 21st, 30 day after surgery]|Surgical site infection rate, The rate of infectious inflammation of the wound as confirmed by the observing doctor, Frame: 3 month after surgery|Overall quality of life, Assessed with patient-reported questionnaire SF-12. A total score in each of 8 sections will be calculated and transformed into a 0-100 scale with a score of zero equivalent to maximum disability and a score of 100 equivalent to no disability, 1- 7 days after surgery, 1 month, 3 months, 1 year, 3 years, 5 years after surgery|Secondary surgery rate, The rate of surgical procedures after initial surgery performed for recurrent disease and/or wound complications, 3 years after surgery|Wound healing speed, The time period between surgery and complete healing of the wound, 3 years after surgery|Wound hemorrhage rate, The rate of hemorrhage from wound edges, Within 30 days from surgery]|Wound seroma rate, The rate of seroma detection in the wound area as confirmed by soft tissues ultrasound, 90 days after surgery|Patient satisfaction with cosmetic results, Patient-reported with a scale 0-10, where 0 corresponds to \&quot;completely unsatisfactory\&quot; and 10 corresponds to \&quot;completely satisfactory\&quot;. A total score is registered., 6 months, 1 year, 3 years|Inhospital stay, The duration of treatment after surgery until discharge from the hospital (in days), 30 days]
Pilonidal sinus disease (PSD): is 26 cases per 100,000 population, affects primarily young adults. One of the problems of surgical treatment of PSD is the frequent development of recurrence. There are various methods of surgical treatment, but the recurrence rate still high up to 67%.

Nowadays, minimally invasive methods for PSD (e.g. the use of a diode laser for sinus obliteration- SiLac, Sinus Laser Closure) compete with traditional methods. This "day-surgery" method significantly reduces the risk of postoperative complications, allows a quicker return to normal daily activity, preserves the intergluteal cleft and provides the best cosmetic results. According to some authors, the recurrence rate in this method is up to 26%, parallel others- recurrence rate is less 3 %, but the follow-up does not exceed 2 years.

On the other hand, the excision of the PSD with the mobilization of the skin-subcutaneous flap, which leads to the lateralization of the postoperative scar to one side of the intergluteal cleft hereby providing a low recurrence rate (up to 4%) .

Thus, despite the increased use of minimally invasive surgery, excision of the pilonidal sinus disease cannot be undoubtedly abandoned due to the lack of comparative studies.