Window Study of Nivolumab With or Without Ipilimumab in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity
This research study is studying nivolumab, an investigational drug, in combination with ipilimumab, also an investigational drug, as a possible treatment for Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the oral cavity.

The following drugs are involved in this study:

* Nivolumab (Opdivo™)
* Ipilimumab (Yervoy™)
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab|PROCEDURE: Standard of Care Surgery
Percentage of Participants With a Volumetric Response Rate to Treatment, Response rate to window treatment with single agent nivolumab or nivolumab combined with ipilimumab is determined using bidirectional measurements (product of longest 2 diameters of lesions) of primary and nodal lesions to be removed at the time of surgery.

Responders will have demonstrated any reduction in overall tumor volume as determined by the product of the longest perpendicular bidirectional tumor measurements., At time of surgery|Safety and Tolerability of Protocol Treatment, Outcome measure includes number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, number of dose-limiting toxicities in safety run-ins following a 3 + 3 design, and delays to surgery., At the time of surgery
Percentage of Participants Demonstrating Objective Response Using RECIST Criteria, Determining the radiologic response rate following the window treatment as determined by RECIST v1.1., At time of surgery|Percentage of Participants Demonstrating Pathological Response, Pathologic response in the primary tumor was assessed using a quantitative grading scheme:

pathologic tumor response \[nonviable tumor\] PTR0 = no or \<10% response PTR1 = ≥10% PTR2 = ≥50%, At time of surgery|Participant One Year Progression-Free Survival Percentage, Progression-free survival is defined as the time between first study treatment and either recurrent disease or death. Recurrent disease includes a local failure, regional failure, or distant metastasis., 1 year|Participant Overall Survival Percentage, Overall survival is defined as the time between first study treatment and death., Data Cutoff (14.2 Months Median Follow Up)
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate effectiveness (how well the drug/s work) of Nivolumab or Nivolumab combined with Ipilimumab prior to standard of care surgery.

Nivolumab and Ipilimumab are types of immunotherapy. Immunotherapy works by encouraging the body's own immune system to attack cancer cells. Both nivolumab and Ipilimumab have been demonstrated to activate the immune system to attack cancer cells in laboratory studies and in patients with different types of cancers.

Nivolumab (Opdivo ™) has been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of metastatic melanoma (a type of skin cancer), and specific types of previously treated advanced lung and kidney cancers. Ipilimumab (Yervoy™) is approved by the FDA for the treatment of metastatic melanoma.

Because Nivolumab and Ipilimumab help the immune system work in different ways, the combination of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab was tested in laboratory studies. The data from these studies suggested that giving the two drugs together could be of benefit to patients, and this was indeed found to be the case in patients with melanoma. The combination of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab is now FDA approved as treatment for patients with metastatic melanoma. However, the use of Nivolumab as well as Ipilimumab alone or in combination for the treatment of patients with head and neck cancer is not approved. Results from clinical trials investigating the safety and efficacy of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab in patients with head and neck cancer are not available at this time.

In the proposed study, either Nivolumab or the combination of Nivolumab and Ipilimumab is being tested is being tested prior to surgery to remove cancers of the oral cavity. By stimulating the immune system to attack cancer cells, these drugs may cause the cancer to decrease in size prior to surgery and prevent the cancer from coming back.