Open- Label Trial of Sipuleucel-T Administered to Active Surveillance Patients for Newly Diagnosed Prostate Cancer
The ProVent study is a randomized, open-label study designed to assess the efficacy of sipuleucel-T in reducing the progression of lower risk non-metastatic prostate cancer compared to participants followed on active surveillance as standard of care.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
BIOLOGICAL: sipuleucel-T
Efficacy of Sipuleucel-T Measured as the Percentage of Subjects Without Histological Reclassification (Gleason Group Upgrade)., Percentage of participants without histological reclassification (Gleason group upgrade) within 36 months of randomization as determined by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR)

o Upgrade is defined as participants at randomization with either International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) Grade Group 1 (Gleason 3+3) upgraded to Grade Group 2 (Gleason 3+4) or higher or participants at randomization with Grade Group 2 upgraded to Grade Group 3 (Gleason 4+3) or higher., Once all participants have completed at least 3 years following randomization
The ProVent Study is designed to look at participants who receive sipuleucel-T compared to control participants followed on active surveillance (AS). The study will enroll participants being followed by AS and initially diagnosed within 12 months prior to Screening with either International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) Grade Group 1 or 2 adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

The Screening Phase will begin at the completion of the informed consent process and continues until randomization. After Screening assessments are completed, eligible participants will be randomized 2:1 to the sipuleucel-T arm or the control arm. Participants randomized to sipuleucel-T arm will receive product as described in the sipuleucel-T approved label.

Participants will undergo their first leukapheresis within 60 days of randomization.

Participants randomized to the control arm will be followed on AS. The Active Phase will begin at randomization and continues through completion of the end of Active Phase study visit (within 30 days of Biopsy 2). Once a Participant from either the sipuleucel-T or control arms completes the end of Active Phase visit, they will enter the Follow-up Phase and complete Follow-up Phase visits every 6 months starting from their last Active Phase visit. The Follow-up Phase visits end when the last Participant enrolled completes Biopsy 2 and end of Active Phase visit or until the study is terminated by the sponsor.