Docetaxel With Either Cetuximab or Bortezomib as First-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II trial is studying how well giving docetaxel together with either cetuximab or bortezomib works as first-line therapy in treating patients with stage III or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some find tumor cells and kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Others interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving docetaxel together with either cetuximab or bortezomib may be effective as first-line therapy in treating non-small cell lung cancer.
Adenocarcinoma of the Lung|Adenosquamous Cell Lung Cancer|Large Cell Lung Cancer|Malignant Pleural Effusion|Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Squamous Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: docetaxel|BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|DRUG: bortezomib
PFS, The product limit estimator developed by Kaplan and Meier will be used., Time between randomization and initial failure (disease progression or death), assessed up to 6 months
Overall response rate, An exact binomial 95% confidence interval will be computed for these estimates., Up to 6 years|Overall survival, The product limit estimator developed by Kaplan and Meier will be used., Time between randomization and death, assessed up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS), defined as the time between study entry and disease progression or death, for each of the two combination regimens.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate of each regimen. II. To evaluate the overall survival distributions associated with each regimen.

III. To evaluate the toxicities of each regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 and cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with responding or stable disease after 4 courses receive cetuximab alone as above in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Arm II: Patients receive docetaxel as in arm I and bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with responding or stable disease after 4 courses receive bortezomib alone as above in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed monthly for 1 year, every 2 months for 2 years, and then every 4 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 62 patients (31 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study within 6-11 months.