Ramosetron, Aprepitant and Dexamethasone (RAD) in Solid Cancer
Cisplatin is one of the most emetogenic drugs used in clinical practice and it could result in poor compliance with chemotherapy. The 5-HT3 receptor antagonists prevent vomiting in acute phase emesis after chemotherapy in 73 - 92% of cisplatin-treated patients when coadministered with steroids, but they appear to lack efficacy in the delayed phase emesis. Ramosetron, a new 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, has been shown to have equivalent efficacy and tolerability and a longer duration of effect than granisetron in preventing acute vomiting in patients undergoing cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. Acute phase emesis was prevented in 84.8% of patients receiving ramosetron plus dexamethasone, but the CR rate of total phase emesis was less than 60%.

Aprepitant is a selective, high-affinity NK1 receptor antagonist. Adding aprepitant to 5-HT3 receptor antagonists and steroid improve CR rate of not only chemotherapy induced acute emesis and but also delayed emesis by 11-14 and 20 percentage points, respectively.

But until now, there was no information that which 5-HT3 receptor antagonists is the best partner for aprepitant. Therefore, we initiated a prospective, open-label, phase II study to assess the efficacy and tolerability of a combination of ramosetron, aprepitant and dexamethasone (RAD) in the prevention of cisplatin based CINV in chemotherapy-naïve patients with solid cancer
Solid Tumour|Postoperative Nausea and Vomiting
DRUG: Ramosetron, Aprepitant, Dexamethasone
Complete response (CR) rate of RAD for the prevention of chemotherapy induced nausea vomiting (CINV) during overall phase (form 1 to 5 days) (overall phase is defined as acute and delayed phase), from chemotherapy day 1 to day 5
CR rate of RAD for the prevention of acute and delayed phase of CINV (from 0 to 24 hours /from 2 to 5 days), until 1 month after chemotherapy|Severity of nausea, until 1 month after chemotherapy|Time to first occurrence of vomiting, until 1 month after chemotherapy|Adverse events reported using CTCAE v3.0, until 1 month after chemotherapy
Cisplatin is one of the most emetogenic drugs used in clinical practice and it could result in poor compliance with chemotherapy. The 5-HT3 receptor antagonists prevent vomiting in acute phase emesis after chemotherapy in 73 - 92% of cisplatin-treated patients when coadministered with steroids, but they appear to lack efficacy in the delayed phase emesis. Ramosetron, a new 5-HT3 receptor antagonists, has been shown to have equivalent efficacy and tolerability and a longer duration of effect than granisetron in preventing acute vomiting in patients undergoing cisplatin-containing chemotherapy. Acute phase emesis was prevented in 84.8% of patients receiving ramosetron plus dexamethasone, but the CR rate of total phase emesis was less than 60%.