Study of Lenvatinib in Subjects With Advanced Endometrial Cancer and Disease Progression
To assess the objective response rate (ORR: complete response + partial response \[CR+ PR\]) of E7080 in subjects with unresectable endometrial cancer and disease progression following platinum-based, first-line chemotherapy. .
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for target lesions assessed by magnetic resonance imaging/computed tomography (MRI/CT) scans, as determined by independent radiologic review. BOR of CR was confirmed by a subsequent CR assessment at least 4 weeks later. BOR of PR was confirmed by a subsequent CR or PR assessment at least 4 weeks later. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) had to be reduced in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. The null hypothesis ORR was ≤10% was tested using 1-sided exact test of a single proportion, at 1-sided 0.05 level. ORR was presented with corresponding 2-sided, 95% confidence interval (CI). ORR=CR+PR, From the date of first administration of study treatment until all participants completed a minimum of 6 cycles (28-day cycles) or discontinued treatment prior to the end of Cycle 6 (as of 21 May 2012 data cut-off)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was measured as the time from the date of first administration of study treatment until the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death (whichever occurred first), as determined by independent radiologic review (IRR) and Investigator based on RECIST 1.1. Disease progression per RECIST v1.1 was defined as at least a 20% relative increase and 5 mm absolute increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study) recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From date of first administration of study treatment until the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death, if death occurred prior to disease progression or up to approximately 26 months (as of 21 May 2012 data cut-off)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was the length time in months from the date of first treatment until the date of death from any cause. If death was not observed, OS was censored at the last known alive date or data cut-off. Additional survival follow-up data was collected for all participants who had not withdrawn consent and were alive at the time of the initial survival follow-up as of 26 Nov 2012 data cut-off. Participants who were lost to follow-up at the time of the initial assessment may have been contacted again at the investigator's discretion. Updated survival (based on 26 Nov 2012 cut-off) was derived for these participants if the contact was made successfully., From date of first administration of study treatment until the date of death, or up to approximately 32 months (as of 26 Nov 2012 data cut-off)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with BOR of CR or PR or stable disease (SD) based on RECIST 1.1 and SD lasting greater than or equal to 7 weeks, as determined by IRR and Investigator., From date of first administration of study treatment until the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death, if death occurred prior to disease progression, or up to approximately 26 months (as of 21 May 2012 data cut-off)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR was defined as the percentage of participants with BOR of CR or PR or durable stable disease (dSD) \[CR + PR + dSD\] based on RECIST 1.1. The dSD rate was defined as the percentage of participants with dSD (based on RECIST 1.1 and defined as SD lasting greater than or equal to 23 weeks), as determined by the IRR and Investigator., From date of first administration of study treatment until the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death, if death occurred prior to disease progression, or up to approximately 26 months (as of 21 May 2012 data cut-off)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) /Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability of Lenvatinib Tolerability of Lenvatinib, Safety was assessed by monitoring and recording all AEs and SAEs, regular monitoring of hematology, clinical chemistry, and urine values, regular measurement of vital signs, electrocardiograms (ECGs), and echocardiograms., From the administration of first dose up to 30 days after the last dose, or up to data cut-off (21 May 2012), or up to approximately 26 months.
Summary of Plasma Concentration of Lenvatinib, A total of 6 blood samples for pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis were collected from each participant who received lenvatinib once daily., Predose and 2 hours postdose on Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 8, and Cycle 2 Day 1|Percentage Change From Baseline for the Imaging Biomarker Parameter of the Area Under the Plasma Concentration Curve Blood Normalized (90) (AUCBN (90)) Median for Total Volume, The antiangiogenic and direct antitumor effects of lenvatinib were assessed by analyses of 2 dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging/diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI/DWI MRI) scans obtained on evaluable participants at Baseline and Cycle 1 Day 5. The scans were obtained using standardized acquisition across sites. DWI sequences totaling approximately 30 seconds were acquired during the DCE-MRI scans. Centralized analysis metrics for DCE-MRI included percentage change in initial area under the gadolinium contrast agent time-concentration curve (first 90 seconds, blood normalized) from baseline., Cycle 1 Day 5|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Contrast Volume Transfer Coefficient (Ktrans) Median, The antiangiogenic and direct antitumor effects of lenvatinib were assessed by analyses of two DCE-MRI/DWI MRI scans obtained on evaluable participants at Baseline and Cycle 1 Day 5. The scans were obtained using standardized acquisition across sites. DWI sequences totaling approximately 30 seconds were acquired during the DCE-MRI scans. Centralized analysis metrics for DCE-MRI included the percentage change in Ktrans for gadolinium chelate movement from the vasculature into the tissue extracellular space from baseline., Cycle 1 Day 5|Percentage Change From Baseline in the Apparent Diffusion Coefficient (ADC) Median, The antiangiogenic and direct antitumor effects of lenvatinib were assessed by analyses of two DCE-MRI/DWI MRI scans obtained on evaluable participants at Baseline and Cycle 1 Day 5. The scans were obtained using standardized acquisition across sites. DWI sequences totaling approximately 30 seconds were acquired during the DCE-MRI scans. Centralized analysis metrics for DCE-MRI included the percentage change in ADC for gadolinium chelate movement from the vasculature into the tissue extracellular space from baseline., Cycle 1 Day 5
To assess the objective response rate (ORR: complete response + partial response \[CR+ PR\]) of E7080 in subjects with unresectable endometrial cancer and disease progression following platinum-based, first-line chemotherapy. .