Phase II FANG™ in Advanced Melanoma
Preliminary studies with a variety of vaccines suggest target accessibility (potential immunogenicity) in a variety of solid tumors to immune directed approaches. In an effort to overcome limitations of immunostimulatory cancer vaccines, the investigators have designed a novel autologous vaccine to address inability to fully identify cancer associated antigens, antigen recognition by the immune system (i.e. antigen to immunogen), effector potency, and cancer-induced resistance. In an effort to overcome limitations of immunostimulatory cancer vaccines, the investigators designed a novel dual-modulatory autologous whole cell vaccine, Vigil™ (bi-shRNA furin and GMCSF Autologous Tumor Cell Vaccine), incorporating the rhGMCSF (recombinant human GMCSF) transgene and the bifunctional shRNAfurin (to block proprotein conversion to active TGFb1 and b2) to 1) address the inability to fully identify cancer associated antigens, 2) effect antigen recognition by the immune system (i.e. antigen to immunogen), 3) enhance effector potency, and 4) subvert endogenous cancer-induced immune resistance. The investigators have also completed the Phase I assessment of Vigil™ vaccine in 27 advanced solid tumor patients (1.0 x 10e7 or 2.5 x 10e7 cells/injection/month for a maximum of 12 vaccinations) who have not experienced any significant adverse effects following 131 vaccinations, including 4 patients with melanoma. Plasmid functionality, immune biomarker response, and preliminary evidence of anticancer activity have been observed. This is a Phase II study of intradermal autologous Vigil™ cancer vaccine (1.0 x 10e7 cells/injection; maximum of 12 vaccinations) in patients with stages IIIc and IV melanoma with biopsy accessible lesions to document blood and intratumoral immune responses and assess correlation with survival.
Advanced Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Vigil™ Vaccine
Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbent Spot (ELISPOT), To determine if subjects will have a positive (defined as \>10 ELISPOTS from baseline) immune response to Vigil. Blood was collected to compare ELISPOT results from baseline until EOT (30 days after last dose)., Baseline, End of Treatment (30 days after last dose) up to 12 months
Number of Alive Subjects, The survival status in patients with stages IIIc and IV melanoma treated with Vigil™ vaccine was determined by following these patients up to 3 years., 3 years
Preliminary studies with a variety of vaccines suggest target accessibility (potential immunogenicity) in a variety of solid tumors to immune directed approaches. In an effort to overcome limitations of immunostimulatory cancer vaccines, the investigators have designed a novel autologous vaccine to address inability to fully identify cancer associated antigens, antigen recognition by the immune system (i.e. antigen to immunogen), effector potency, and cancer-induced resistance. In an effort to overcome limitations of immunostimulatory cancer vaccines, the investigators designed a novel dual-modulatory autologous whole cell vaccine, Vigil™ (bi-shRNA furin and GMCSF Autologous Tumor Cell Vaccine), incorporating the rhGMCSF (recombinant human GMCSF) transgene and the bifunctional shRNAfurin (to block proprotein conversion to active TGFb1 and b2) to 1) address the inability to fully identify cancer associated antigens, 2) effect antigen recognition by the immune system (i.e. antigen to immunogen), 3) enhance effector potency, and 4) subvert endogenous cancer-induced immune resistance. The investigators have also completed the Phase I assessment of Vigil™ vaccine in 27 advanced solid tumor patients (1.0 x 10e7 or 2.5 x 10e7 cells/injection/month for a maximum of 12 vaccinations) who have not experienced any significant adverse effects following 131 vaccinations, including 4 patients with melanoma. Plasmid functionality, immune biomarker response, and preliminary evidence of anticancer activity have been observed. This is a Phase II study of intradermal autologous Vigil™ cancer vaccine (1.0 x 10e7 cells/injection; maximum of 12 vaccinations) in patients with stages IIIc and IV melanoma with biopsy accessible lesions to document blood and intratumoral immune responses and assess correlation with survival.