Study of Pegylated Interferon-Alfa 2b in Combination With PUVA Therapy In CTCL
RATIONALE: PEG-interferon alfa-2b may interfere with the growth of cancer cells and slow the growth of mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome. Ultraviolet light therapy uses a drug, such as psoralen, that is absorbed by cancer cells. The drug becomes active when it is exposed to ultraviolet light. When the drug is active, cancer cells are killed. Giving PEG-interferon alfa-2b together with ultraviolet light therapy may kill more cancer cell.

PURPOSE: This is a pilot study of dose-escalating pegylated IFN-α-2b and PUVA or NB-UVB. The purpose is to study the side effects and best dose of PEG-interferon alfa-2b to be given together with ultraviolet light therapy in patients with stage IB, stage II, stage III, or stage IVA mycosis fungoides/Sezary syndrome (CTCL).
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pegylated interferon α-2b|OTHER: Psoralens with ultraviolet light A|OTHER: Narrowband-ultraviolet light B
Number of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) Observed During Dose Escalation of PEG-IFN-α-2b, Adverse events are graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria (CTCAE) version 3.0. In general, grades are assigned as follows:

Grade 1 Mild AE Grade 2 Moderate AE Grade 3 Severe AE Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE Grade 5 Death related to AE

A dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as any grade 3 or higher hematologic toxicity or any grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity., From the date that the first patient began treatment until the last patient completed the dose escalation phase (up to 12 weeks per patient)|Change in Total Health-related Quality of Life Score Using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Biologic Response Modifier (FACT-BRM), The FACT-BRM is a patient self-report tool to assess health-related quality of life measures., During 12 weeks of dose escalation and then up to one year during maintenance therapy.
Number of Patients Exhibiting a Complete Response, Response was assessed according to the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity. Clinical signs are graded on scales of 0 to 8 (0 being no evidence of disease and 8 being the near worst severity of sign/symptom). The CA response is calculated as the ratio of the sum of the grades for all clinical signs plus the surface areas for all index lesions at each visit compared to the sum of these grades at baseline. The CA also considers all other cutaneous lesions and any extra-cutaneous manifestations of disease.

CR requires a CA ratio of 0 (zero) with no evidence of new disease (abnormal or pathologically positive lymph nodes, cutaneous or other tumor manifestations, visceral disease) present over 4 weeks. Patients with Sézary Syndrome must have no evidence of circulating Sézary cells (\< 5% Sézary cells are considered to be not significant). Skin biopsy is required for documentation of CR., During 12 weeks of dose escalation and then up to one year during maintenance therapy.|To Evaluate the Duration of Response, To evaluate duration of response related to combined pegylated IFN-α-2b plus PUVA or NB-UVB therapy., At each study visit
Change in Activation Status of Key Signaling Molecules Between Baseline and After 2 Weeks of Treatment, The activation status of key signaling molecules affecting the PI3K and JAK/STAT pathways was to be analyzed in samples of skin and blood taken at baseline and after 2 weeks of treatment. Participation in this exploratory component of the trial was optional for patients., At baseline and after 2 weeks of treatment (for those patients who consented to this portion)|Correlation of Response With Infiltration of Skin Lesions With Dendritic Cells, Cytotoxic CD8+ T-cells, and NK-cells, Baseline, 24 hours post-1st dose in the dose escalation phase, and 24 hours post-1st dose in the maintenance therapy phase
Patients receive PEG-interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously once weekly for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive UV light therapy (either PUVA or NB-UVB).

Health-related quality of life is assessed periodically using the FACT-BRM, FACT-G, and FACT-CTCL questionnaires.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 1 year.