The Effect of Meditation on Resilience and Spiritual Well-Being Levels
Childhood cancers have become an important health problem with a rapidly increasing incidence. Although global and national data show that the developmental status of countries has an impact on the success of treatment, there is a significant increase in the incidence of childhood cancers. With the diagnosis of childhood cancer, long-term and exhausting treatments, increased financial and moral burdens and psycho-social difficulties affect children, but it is inevitable that the child's parents are also affected by the situation. Childhood cancer has serious effects on the physical and psychological health of pediatric patients, their families and caregivers. In this process, parents may face psychosocial problems such as depression, anxiety, stress, fatigue, burnout, disruption of family dynamics and inadequacy. Although the treatment process affects the adaptation, coping and family dynamics of all family members, it can be much more tiring and exhausting for mothers, who are often the primary caregivers of the child.Studies point out that parents of a child with oncology need to adapt to the long and strenuous treatment procedures in order to cope and cope with these challenges. Adaptation involves parents more quickly in integrating and taking an active role in the treatment and care processes. This has been linked to people's ability to be resilient. Although resilience is an ability that develops over time, it is very important to support the family of parents of children diagnosed with oncology in this sense. Meditation is a practice with ancient teachings dating back at least 3000 years. In recent years there has been a growing interest in its benefits for psychological and spiritual well-being in many fields including medicine, nursing, psychology, sociology and education. Although it has a wide variety of definitions and contents, it generally consists of practices such as attention and focus training for mindfulness, breathing and relaxation practices for relaxation, and attention practices for mental calming. Studies show that meditation practices are used for purposes such as individual and psychological well-being, anxiety, depression, strengthening spirituality and positive results are obtained. This study aims to determine the effects of meditation on the spiritual well-being and resilience levels of mothers with oncologically diagnosed children aged 6-18 years.
Well-Being, Psychological
OTHER: Meditation
Spiritual well-being level (measured by "Spiritual Well-being Scale".It is a five-point Likert scale comprising 29 items in three sub-dimensions. The score that can be obtained from the scale varies between 29 and 145.), The effect of meditation applied to mothers with children with oncological diagnosis in the 6-18 age group on their spiritual well-being level., Measurements will be taken at registration, when participants are included in the study, and 3 weeks after the first measurement.|Resilience level (measured by the Connor Davidson Resilience Scale Short Form. The scores that can be obtained from the scale vary between 0 and 40. High scores obtained from the scale are considered as high psychological resilience.), The effect of meditation applied to mothers with children with oncological diagnosis in the 6-18 age group on their resilience level., Measurements will be taken at registration, when participants are included in the study, and 3 weeks after the first measurement.
Meditation is a practice that dates back at least 3000 years and has ancient teachings. In recent years, there has been increasing interest in its benefits for psychological and spiritual well-being in many fields, including medicine, nursing, psychology, sociology, and education. Although it has various definitions and contents, it generally consists of practices such as attention and focus training for awareness, breathing and relaxation practices for relaxation, and attention practices for mental calming. Studies show that meditation practices are used for purposes such as individual and psychological well-being, anxiety, depression, and strengthening spirituality, and positive results are obtained. It is the responsibility of nurses to protect and support parents from distressing and tiring processes such as having a child diagnosed with oncology, caring for the child, and interrupting family processes. Nurses are among the most active participants in the process, working with parents and the child throughout the entire process, starting from the child's diagnosis. Examining and evaluating parents' spiritual strength and resilience and intervening in time is very important. This research was planned to investigate the spiritual well-being and resilience of mothers with children diagnosed with oncology and to determine and evaluate the effect of meditation practice on these parameters. So, what can we do to empower parents of children diagnosed with oncology? Plans to contribute to the literature on the subject. Contributing to a particular field, such as pediatric oncology, will support nurses working in these units to develop a more comprehensive and holistic approach and improve their quality of care. Quality care will positively support, strengthen and guide the child and the parents on this journey.