Role of Hemostatic Powder (Endo-clotTM) in Success and Prevention of Bleeding Within Gastric Cancer Patients With Bleeding
Gastrointestinal(GI) hemorrhage related with gastric cancer is prevalent in advanced cases mostly. As endoscopic hemostatic methods such as argon plasma ablation (APC) had developed, controlling GI hemorrhage in gastric cancer is much easier these days. but re-bleeding rate is still high, even after successful hemostasis with APC or electrical coagulation. Furthermore patients who were experienced re-bleeding are expected poorer survival outcomes than those who are not. So excellent bleeding control in gastric cancer is most important in GI hemorrhage of gastric cancer.

Recently developed hemostatic powder \[Endo-Clot(TM)\] is easy to use and have proven its usefulness in GI hemorrhage in peptic ulcer diseases. So in this study, investigator will try to find out feasibility \& safety of Endo-Clot(TM) in GI hemorrhage in gastric cancer.
Bleeding at Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Endo-Clot(TM)
Rebleeding rate, Proportion of patients who are experience rebleeding events after hemostasis within 30 days expected to be lower than 10 %.

Definition rebleeding events 1. Overt symptoms of GI bleeding(such as hematemesis, melena) and/or Hemoglobin down more than 2g/dl compared to Hemoglobin level which were checked just after procedure., within 30 days
Success of bleeding control rate, Proportion of patients who are experience successful hemostasis is expected to be higher than 80 %applying Endo-Clot™, Rebleeding rate in 3days, rate of additional intervention other than initial endoscopic hemostasis, Mortalities, within 2 weeks and 4 weeks|Rebleeding rate, Proportion of patients experience rebleeding events after hemostasis within 3 days expected to be lower than 5 %. Definition of Rebleeding rate in 3days 1. Overt symptoms of GI bleeding(such as hematemesis, melena) and/or Hemoglobin down more than 2g/dl compared to Hemoglobin level which were checked just after procedure., in 3 days|Rate of additional intervention other than initial endoscopic hemostasis, Definition of Successful hemostasis; controlled bleeding vessel in 5 minute after applying Endo-Clot™, within 2 weeks to 4 weeks|Mortalities, within 2 weeks to 4 weeks
Gastrointestinal(GI) hemorrhage related with gastric cancer is prevalent in advanced cases mostly. As endoscopic hemostatic methods such as argon plasma ablation (APC) had developed, controlling GI hemorrhage in gastric cancer is much easier these days. but re-bleeding rate is still high, even after successful hemostasis with APC or electrical coagulation. Furthermore patients who were experienced re-bleeding are expected poorer survival outcomes than those who are not. So excellent bleeding control in gastric cancer is most important in GI hemorrhage of gastric cancer.

Recently developed hemostatic powder \[Endo-Clot(TM)\] is easy to use and have proven its usefulness in GI hemorrhage in peptic ulcer diseases. So in this study, investigator will try to find out feasibility \& safety of Endo-Clot(TM) in GI hemorrhage in gastric cancer.