Validation and Scaling of Screening Program for Undiagnosed Myasthenia Gravis-Social Media Campaign Paired With a Self-moderated Assessment
This study expands and validates the pilot study NCT06381284. It is a fully remote, site-less, prospective, observational study enrolling adults in the United States (excluding U.S. territories) with undiagnosed neuromuscular symptoms. The primary objective is to determine the validity of a self-assessment tool in encouraging undiagnosed participants, recruited through a social media campaign, to seek medical evaluation for suspected myasthenia gravis (MG).
Myasthenia Gravis|Neuromuscular Disease|Neuromuscular Manifestations
BEHAVIORAL: Social media recruitment|BEHAVIORAL: Self-Assessment|BEHAVIORAL: Follow-up
Self-Assessment tool validity, Measure the specificity and sensitivity of the Self-Assessment tool, 6 months from time of enrollment
Social media engagement, Measure the engagement and cost metrics of the social media ad campaign, Enrollment period (~4-5 months)
Time to diagnosis, Evaluate the time to diagnosis for any participant who has a new diagnosis of MG after completing the study, 6 months from time of enrollment
The pilot study (NCT06381284) demonstrated the feasibility of using social media to recruit participants with undiagnosed MG-like neuromuscular symptoms. It also successfully led to the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis (MG) in previously undiagnosed individuals. In the pilot, two assessment tools were developed by the study team: the Impact of Daily Living (IDL) Survey and the MG Physical Tests. Both tools were designed using supporting literature, accepted guidelines, and a rigorous review via a panel of practicing neurologist key opinion leaders experienced in treating patients with MG.

The pilot enrolled a small cohort of participants. This current study is expanding the targeted sample size and enrollment period with the goal of validating the self-assessment tool.

Participants with undiagnosed neuromuscular symptoms, recruited through targeted social media advertisements, will complete enrollment on our study webpage.(www.unearthrootcause.com). Consented adults without specific diagnosed neurological conditions will first be screened using the IDL survey, which assesses the presence/absence of characteristic MG symptoms and habits. Qualified participants will then complete the MG Physical Tests, following video-guided instructions to perform 10 physical tests evaluating inducible muscle fatigue. A neurologist will asynchronously review the assessment results to determine whether an in-person neurology evaluation for MG is warranted. Each participant will receive a report of the neurologist's evaluation and study results to present to their doctor. Participants will be followed for up to six months with monthly survey check-ins to track whether they sought clinical evaluation and received a confirmed MG diagnosis. During follow-up participants who self-report as MG positive (newly diagnosed MG) or MG negative (MG was ruled out by physician or through testing) will be asked to upload confirmatory medical records or undergo an interview with a study navigator.