A Non-interventional Study for Women With HR-positive, HER2-negative Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer to Evaluate the Real-world Effectiveness of Treatment Algorithms Beginning With Ribociclib + AI/FUL, or With Endocrine Therapy or Chemotherapy as First Line Treatment
This is a non-interventional observational study conducted in Germany to evaluate the real-world effectiveness, tolerability, safety, and quality of life in patients with locally advanced/metastatic HR+/HER2- breast cancer treated with one of the following 1st line treatments: Ribociclib + AI/FUL, or endocrine monotherapy, or chemotherapy
Breast Cancer
DRUG: First-line Ribociclib + endocrine therapy|DRUG: First-line endocrine therapy|DRUG: First-line chemtherapy
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival was defined as first intake of study medication in current-line therapy up to first documented progress or death from any cause in this treatment line. If a patient had not had an event, progression-free survival was censored at the end of the respective therapy line., Up to 88 months
Cox proportional hazard regression for progression free survival in 1st line therapy, Cox proportional hazard regression were calculated with the covariates treatment cohort, age group, previous therapy, ECOG performance status, grading status and metastasis status for the full analysis set excluding patients with missing data in covariates., Up to 88 months|Propensity Score matching for progression free survival in 1st line therapy, Propensity score matching (PSM) was performed to compare outcome between cohorts and performed separately for the Ribociclib+AI/FU vs. Chemotherapy cohort resp. the Ribociclib+AI/FU vs. Endocrine therapy cohort in a 5:1 ratio., Up to 88 months|Sequential progression-free survival (PFS_S), Sequential progression-free survival up to second-line therapy was defined as time between first intake of study medication in first-line therapy up to progress or death after second-line therapy. Sequential progression-free survival up to third-line therapy was defined as time between first intake of study medication in first-line therapy up to progress or death after third-line therapy. Sequential progression-free survival for all further therapy lines were analyzed according to the definitions above., Up to 88 months|Conditional progression-free survival, Conditional progression-free survival in first-line therapy was defined as PFS for patients with a period of up to 6, 12, or 24 months from start of study treatment (first intake) up to first progression.

This means that all patients with progression or death within the first 24 months of first-line therapy are classified into one of the three subgroups: Progression in month 0 to 6, Progression in month 7 to 12 and Progression in month 13 to 24. For these subgroups, the PFS is presented separately., Up to 88 months|Time to treatment failure (TTF), Time to treatment failure (TTF) from current-line therapy was defined as time between first intake of study medication in current-line therapy up to therapy discontinuation because of progress, adverse events leading to discontinuation or death., Up to 88 months|Time to first chemotherapy, Time to first chemotherapy was defined as time between first intake of study medication in first-line therapy up to first application of chemotherapy for patients enrolled in 1st line option ribociclib + AI/FU or endocrine therapy., Up to 88 months|Time to next treatment / therapy (TTNT) after 1st line treatment, Time to next treatment / therapy (TTNT) was defined as time between first intake of study medication in first-line therapy up to first intake of medication in the next therapy line., Up to 88 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) was defined as time between first intake of study medication in first-line therapy up to death from any cause. If a patient was not known to have died, survival was censored at the date of last contact., Up to 88 months|Dose reduction, Dose reduction rates and reasons, Up to 88 months|Dose interruption, Dose interruption rates and reasons, Up to 88 months|Discontinuations, Discontinuations rates and reasons, Up to 88 months|Adherence - MMAS-8 questionnaire, Patient adherence for ribociclib was assessed using the MMAS-8 questionnaire. This questionnaire was only send to patients enrolled in the first-line option ribociclib + AI/FU. The score was analyzed using descriptive statistics and adherence categories low, medium and high were displayed by visit. Questionnaires were only included if all questionnaire items were answered.

The total scale has a range of 0 to 8.0 where:

* Low Adherence (\< 6)
* Medium Adherence (6 to \<8)
* High Adherence (= 8), Up to 87 weeks|Number of participants with mutations, Number of participants with mutations will be collected, Up to 88 months|Quality of life for specific cohorts and treatment lines - EORTC QLQ-C30, Quality of life during documented therapy lines was assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30. Scale and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., Up to 88 months|Quality of life for specific cohorts and treatment lines - EORTC QLQ-B23, Quality of life during documented therapy lines was assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30. Scale and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., Up to 88 months|Quality of life for specific cohorts and treatment lines - HADS-D, Quality of life during documented therapy lines was assessed using the HADS-D. Scale ranges between 0 and 21, a high score means a high level of anxiety or depression., Up to 88 months
This non-interventional study collects data from clinical practice capturing on effectiveness, safety and tolerability, duration of therapy, and quality of life of ribociclib in combination with an aromatase inhibitor/fulvestrant in daily routine and in line with the respective current German summary of product characteristics. In order to put these results into perspective, data is also collected on patients treated with endocrine therapy or chemotherapy for first line locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. To gain insight into algorithms and outcome of sequential therapy, up to three lines of treatment are documented within this study. The information gathered and evaluated in this NIS is helping to answer open questions for the treatment of locally advanced/metastatic breast cancer and provides first insights into the treatment reality with ribociclib in this setting. This includes, but is not limited to, the questions on baseline demographics leading to a specific treatment decision, as well as efficacy and clinical routine related to treatment sequencing. In addition, data on the mutation status (including PIK3CA and BRCA1/2) is collected at different time points to generate insights into the clinical routine of mutation testing and to understand its impact on therapy sequencing.