Yiqi Wenjing Prescriptions Preventive Efficacy of Oxaliplatin-induced Peripheral Neuropathy Clinical Trial
This study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter phase III clinical trial of Yiqi Wenjing prescriptions for Preventing Oxaliplatin-induced Peripheral Neuropathy.
Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Mimetic granules of Yiqi-Wenjing prescriptions|DRUG: Huangqi-Guizhi-Wuwu granules|DRUG: Danggui-Sini granules
The dynamic change of the degree of oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy, The degree of oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy will be evaluated according to the score of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-CIPN twenty item scale(EORTC QLQ-CIPN20, 20-80 scores, higher scores mean a worse outcome), which is graded by the subject. In order to observe the dynamic change of OIPN, this trial sets multiple measure time points., On 1 day before and 3 days after the beginning of each cycle(each FOLFOX4 or mFOLFOX6 cycle is 14 days, each XELOX cycle is 21 days) up to Cycle 6, 1 month after the end of Cycle 6, and then every 3 months up to 1 year.
The dynamic change of the grades of oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy, The grades of oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy will be evaluated according to the grades of National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0 (NCI-CTCAE 5.0, 0-5 grades, higher grade means a worse outcome), which is graded by the doctor. In order to observe the dynamic change of OIPN, this trial sets multiple measure time points., On 1 day before the beginning of each cycle(each FOLFOX4 or mFOLFOX6 cycle is 14 days, each XELOX cycle is 21 days) up to Cycle 6.|The dynamic change of quality of life, Quality of life will be evaluated according to the score of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer's Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30, 28-112 scores, higher scores mean a worse outcome). In order to observe the dynamic change of QOL, this trial sets multiple measure time points., On 1 day before the beginning of each cycle(each FOLFOX4 or mFOLFOX6 cycle is 14 days, each XELOX cycle is 21 days) up to Cycle 6.|The number of completed chemotherapy cycles, The number of completed chemotherapy cycles will be recorded. If the result is less then 6, the specific reason should be noted., At the end of Cycle 6 or after the last chemotherapy(each FOLFOX4 or mFOLFOX6 cycle is 14 days, each XELOX cycle is 21 days).
This study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, and multicenter clinical trial. Three hundred sixty postoperative patients with colon cancer stage IIa-IIIc will be randomly assigned into treatment group I, treatment group II and placebo-control group, taking Huangqi Guizhi Wuwu granules, Danggui Sini granules and the mimetic granules of Yiqi Wenjing granules respectively. All subjects will receive mFOLFOX6 or FOLFOX4 or XELOX chemotherapy regimen along with traditional Chinese medicine(TCM) or placebo treatment per day for at least three months and one year follow up. EORTC QLQ-CIPN20 will be used to assess the degree of peripheral neuropathy as the primary outcome measure. Grades of OIPN evaluated by NCI-CTCAE 5.0, quality of life evaluated by EORTC QLQ-C30, chemotherapeutic efficacy evaluated by RESIST 1.1, and the number of completed chemotherapy cycles are selected as the secondary outcome measures.