Myocardial Perfusion and Fibrosis in Cancer Survivors
This is a cross-sectional pilot study. The investigators seek to obtain early information pertaining to the relationship between measurements of myocardial perfusion reserve and myocardial fibrosis after receipt of Anthracycline-based chemotherapy (≥2 years prior).
Myocardial Fibrosis|Myocardial Injury|Chemotherapeutic Toxicity
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Adenosine stress test MRI
Myocardial perfusion reserve index (MPRI), The myocardial perfusion reserve index (MPRI) will be measured noninvasively with adenosine stress CMR imaging after dual-bolus first-pass perfusion with gadolinium contrast. The slope of the myocardial signal intensity curve is computed and normalized by the slope of the blood pool signal intensity curve for both rest and stress. MPRI is calculated as the ratio of the stress slope divided by the rest slope., During Adenosine Stress Test
Myocardial fibrosis quantification using Myocardial T1, Measured noninvasively with CMR imaging. For myocardial fibrosis quantification with T1 endocardial and epicardial contours are drawn to delineate the myocardium; mean T1 (pre- and post-contrast) is calculated from the pixels within the myocardium. Expected range of T1 is 900-1250ms with higher T1 values considered a worsened outcome., During Adenosine Stress Test|Myocardial fibrosis quantification using extracellular volume (ECV), Measured noninvasively with CMR imaging. The ECV is calculated from the mean myocardial T1 and LV blood T1 pre- and post-contrast. Expected range of ECV is 20-40% with higher ECV values representing a worse outcome., During Adenosine Stress Test
The primary objective of this cross-sectional pilot study is to determine the myocardial perfusion reserve index (MPRI) in cancer survivors treated with anthracycline chemotherapy relative to similarly aged healthy comparators without a history of cancer treatment. Hypothesis: Cancer survivors treated with anthracycline chemotherapy will have a lower MPRI than similarly aged healthy comparators without a history of cancer treatment.The secondary objective of this cross-sectional pilot study is to determine if MPRI is associated with myocardial fibrosis measured non-invasively with cardiovascular magnetic resonance imaging. Hypothesis: MPRI will be inversely associated with fibrosis burden

Study participants will be consented with pre-study data collection recorded. No randomization will occur as this is a cross-sectional study. Participants in both the cancer survivor and control groups will complete one study visit. No follow-up will be completed.