BEMPEG With Pembrolizumab vs Pembrolizumab Alone in Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent HNSCC (PROPEL-36)
This is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, Phase 2/3 study that will evaluate the efficacy and safety of bempegaldesleukin (BEMPEG; NKTR-214) combined with pembrolizumab compared with pembrolizumab monotherapy in patients with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC with positive PD-L1 expression (CPS ≥ 1).
Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer|Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Bempegaldesleukin|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Overall Survival, Approximately 2 years|Objective Response Rate, To compare the objective response rate (ORR) of bempegaldesleukin plus pembrolizumab versus pembrolizumab monotherapy., Approximately 2 years
Progression-Free Survival, To compare progression-free survival (PFS) of bempegaldesleukin plus pembrolizumab versus pembrolizumab monotherapy., Approximately 2 years|Time to Deterioration, The time from baseline to a ≥ 10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥ 10-point deterioration from baseline in:

• Global health status/quality of life assessment based on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30).

The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire designed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. All scale scores are linearly converted to range from 0 to 100. A higher total score indicates a better level of functioning.

• Pain and Swallowing based on respective multi-item scales of EORTC QLQ head and neck cancer specific module (EORTC QLQ-H\&N35).

EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 consists of 7 multi-item scales that assess pain, swallowing, senses, speech, social eating, social contact and sexuality. All scale scores are linearly converted to range from 0 to 100. A higher total score indicates increased severity of symptoms., Approximately 2 years|Change in Global Health Status/Quality of Life, To compare mean change from baseline in global health status/quality of life scale of EORTC QLQ-C30. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is composed of multi-item scales and single item measures. These include 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, and pain), a global health status/HRQoL scale, and 6 single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Each of the multi-item scales includes a different set of items - no item occurs in more than one scale. All scale scores are linearly converted to range from 0 to 100. A higher total score indicates a better level of functioning., Approximately 2 years|Percentage of Patients With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, Compare the overall safety and tolerability based on assessments of treatment-emergent adverse events and serious adverse events, Screening baseline through end of study, approximately 2 years
This is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, Phase 2/3 study that will evaluate the efficacy and safety of bempegaldesleukin (BEMPEG; NKTR-214) combined with pembrolizumab compared with pembrolizumab monotherapy in patients with recurrent or metastatic HNSCC with positive PD-L1 expression (CPS ≥ 1).