Ultrasound Imaging Technique in Detecting Breast Microcalcifications in Patients Undergoing Biopsy for a Breast Abnormality
This clinical trial studies a new type of ultrasound technique, MicroPure, in detecting breast microcalcifications in patients undergoing biopsy for a breast abnormality. Ultrasound sends sound waves into the body, and the sound waves reflected back are interpreted by the machine into a grayscale image. MicroPure uses a filter that adjusts the brightness and gives color to the ultrasound images, which may allow doctors to better identify microcalcifications. Microcalcifications are tiny deposits of calcium in the breast that cannot be felt but can be detected by imaging. A group of microcalcifications may indicate that cancer is present.
Breast Carcinoma|Microcalcification
DEVICE: Ultrasound|DEVICE: MicoPure ultrasound|PROCEDURE: Biopsy of Breast
Number of microcalcifications seen on MicroPure ultrasound, The number of microcalcifications seen on MicroPure ultrasound will be recorded and compared to x-ray imaging of the area undergoing the biopsy procedure (as the reference standard). The difference in agreement between the two ultrasound modes (relative to mammography) will be assessed using McNemar's test for correlated proportions, where p-values less than 0.05 are considered significant. A dichotomous parameters indicating agreement with mammography with respect to the exact number of microcalcifications (as yes or no) will be calculated and compared., Baseline|Number of microcalcifications seen on grayscale ultrasound, The number of microcalcifications seen on grayscale ultrasound will be recorded and compared to x-ray imaging of the area undergoing the biopsy procedure (as the reference standard). The difference in agreement between the two ultrasound modes (relative to mammography) will be assessed using McNemar's test for correlated proportions, where p-values less than 0.05 are considered significant. A dichotomous parameters indicating agreement with mammography with respect to the exact number of microcalcifications (as yes or no) will be calculated and compared., Baseline
Number of microcalcifications determined by pathology findings, The results of the three imaging methods will be compared to the pathology findings using the American College of Radiology Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System lexicon for the assessment of breast lesions., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate MicroPure relative to grayscale ultrasound imaging for the identification of microcalcifications with mammography as the reference standard.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate MicroPure compared to grayscale ultrasound imaging and mammography for the characterization of breast abnormalities associated with microcalcifications using biopsy results as the reference standard (sensitivity and specificity will be calculated).

II. Evaluate MicroPure relative to specimen x-ray imaging for the identification of breast microcalcifications with pathology as the reference standard.

III. Estimate the improvements in patient care that may be achievable if MicroPure guided core needle biopsy procedures can replace some surgical excisions for the evaluation of breast abnormalities.