Autologous Stem Cell Transplant Followed By Maintenance Therapy in Treating Elderly Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial investigates whether patients greater than or equal to 65 years of age diagnosed with myeloma or another plasma cell malignancy will have better outcomes with transplant followed by maintenance therapy, as primarily measured by progression-free survival, versus non-transplant approaches.
Extramedullary Plasmacytoma|Isolated Plasmacytoma of Bone|Light Chain Deposition Disease|Primary Systemic Amyloidosis|Stage I Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: doxorubicin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: thalidomide|DRUG: melphalan|PROCEDURE: autologous stem cell transplant
Median Progression Free Survival (mPFS), PFS is defined as the time from the start of DPACE to the date of first documentation of disease progression as assessed by the International Myeloma Working Group response criteria or death due to any cause. Progression is defined using the International Myeloma Working Group response criteria, an increase of greater than or equal to 25% from the lower response value., From the start of DPACE for all participants who have had at least one day of protocol treatment. Up to 6 years.|Percentage of Participants With Serious Treatment-Related Complications, Percentage of participants with severe complications defined at ICU admission and death, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0., From the start of DPACE for all participants who have had at least one day of protocol treatment. Up to 6 years.|Percentage of Participants Able to Complete Full Course Therapy, Percentage of participants able to complete the full course of therapy., Up to 6 years
Mean Change in Quality-Of-Life Indicators Post-Transplant, Measured using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) and Multiple Myeloma module (QLQ-MY20). The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social) and global health status. The EORTC QLQ-MY20 includes disease symptoms and treatment side effects scales. Scores are averaged and transformed to 0-100 scale. For functional and global health status, a positive change from baseline (pre-DPACE) indicates improvement whereas for the symptom scales a negative change from baseline (pre-DPACE) indicates improvement., Pre-DPACE, Pre-maintenance, every 6 months for up to 2 years during maintenance. Up to 6 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) from the start of dexamethasone, cisplatin, Adriamycin (doxorubicin),Cytoxan (cyclophosphamide), etoposide (DPACE) for all participants who have had at least one day of protocol treatment.

II. To evaluate how well such therapy is tolerated in patients mainly over the age of 65 years by assessing severe complications (intensive care unit \[ICU\] admission, death) and the percentage of participants able to complete the full course of therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate Quality-Of-Life post-transplant using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Core Questionnaire QLQ-C30 and QLC-MY20.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive dexamethasone orally (PO) on days 1-4 and 8-11, cisplatin intravenously (IV) continuously, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously, cyclophosphamide IV, and etoposide IV on days 1-4. Patients then receive pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SQ) on days 6 and 13 and undergo collection of stem cells when white blood cell (WBC) and cluster of differentiation (CD)34 counts are within program range. Following stem cell collection, patients may receive interim dexamethasone PO on days 1-4, every 14 days at the discretion of the treating physician.

TRANSPLANT: Beginning between 4 weeks to 6 months after the first day of induction therapy, patients receive as transplant conditioning regimen dexamethasone PO on days -4 to -1 and days +2 through +5, bortezomib IV bolus on days -4, -1, 2, and 5, thalidomide PO on days -4 to 5, and melphalan IV on days -4 and -1. Patients undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) on day 0. Between transplant and consolidation therapy, patients receive dexamethasone PO on days 1-4 every 21 days and thalidomide PO daily.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: If administered, post-transplant consolidation may begin 4-6 weeks after transplant but should occur no more than 4 months later. Most patients will not receive consolidation. Those that do will receive dexamethasone PO on days 1-4 and 8-11, thalidomide PO on days 1-11, bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11, cisplatin IV continuously, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously, cyclophosphamide IV continuously, and etoposide IV continuously on days 1-4.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY YEAR 1: Beginning 6 weeks-6 months after consolidation therapy or 4 weeks to 6 months after transplant if consolidation is skipped, patients receive bortezomib IV bolus on days 1, 4, 15, and 18, thalidomide PO QD on days 1-28, and dexamethasone PO on days 1-4 and 15-18. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY YEAR 2: Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 15, and 18, cyclophosphamide PO or IV on days 1 and 15, and dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at least once annually at the study center, but serum for MM marker results will be sent to the study site for close monitoring of PFS .