Phase 2 Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Parallel Group Trial of Linaclotide Administered to Patients With Opioid-Induced Constipation Receiving Chronic Opioid Treatment for Non-Cancer Pain
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of linaclotide for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC), in adults receiving stable opioid treatment for chronic non-cancer pain that has been present for a minimum of 3 months.

This study included up to a 4-week Screening Period, and a 2 to 3-week Pretreatment Period. Patients meeting the entry criteria were randomized to 1 of 2 doses of linaclotide or placebo once per day for 8 weeks. This 8-week study assessed the effects of linaclotide on bowel movement frequency, as well as other bowel symptoms of OIC.
Opioid-Induced Constipation
DRUG: Linaclotide 145 micrograms|DRUG: Linaclotide 290 micrograms|DRUG: Placebo
Change From Baseline in 8-Week SBM Frequency Rate (SBMs/Week), Change from baseline in 8-Week SBM frequency rate (SBMs/week) during the Treatment Period., Baseline (Week 0) to Week 8
Time to First SBM After the First Dose of Investigational Product, The median time to the first SBM after the first dose of investigational product, Baseline (Day 0) up to 8 weeks|Percentage of Participants Meeting 6/8 Week Spontaneous Bowel Movement (SBM) 3 + 1 Responder Criteria, A 6/8 Week SBM 3 + 1 responder was a participant who met the weekly SBM 3 + 1 responder criteria for at least 6 out of the 8 weeks of the Treatment Period. For each week in the Treatment Period, a weekly SBM 3 + 1 responder was a patient who had an SBM weekly rate ≥ 3 and an increase ≥ 1 in the SBM weekly rate from baseline for that week., 8-week treatment period|Change From Baseline in 8-Week Stool Consistency, Stool Consistency was assessed using the 7-Point Bristol Stool Form Scale:

1. = separate hard lumps like nuts (difficult to pass)
2. = sausage shaped but lumpy
3. = like a sausage but with cracks on surface
4. = like a sausage or snake, smooth and soft
5. = soft blobs with clear-cut edges (passed easily)
6. = fluffy pieces with ragged edges, a mushy
7. = watery, no solid pieces (entirely liquid), Baseline (Week 0) to Week 8|Change From Baseline in 8-Week Straining, Straining was measured on a 5-point ordinal scale where a value of 1 is "not at all" and a value of 5 is "an extreme amount.", Baseline (Week 0) to Week 8|Change From Baseline in 8-Week Abdominal Bloating, Abdominal bloating was collected daily via IVRS calls and measured using an 11-point numerical rating scale, where 0 represents no abdominal bloating and 10 represents very severe abdominal bloating., Baseline (Week 0) to Week 8
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of linaclotide for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC), in adults receiving stable opioid treatment for chronic non-cancer pain that has been present for a minimum of 3 months.

This study included up to a 4-week Screening Period, and a 2 to 3-week Pretreatment Period. Patients meeting the entry criteria were randomized to 1 of 2 doses of linaclotide or placebo once per day for 8 weeks. This 8-week study assessed the effects of linaclotide on bowel movement frequency, as well as other bowel symptoms of OIC.