ATX-101 in Advanced Dedifferentiated Liposarcoma and Leiomyosarcoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a new investigational drug, ATX-101, for the treatment of dedifferentiated liposarcoma (LPS) and leiomyosarcoma (LMS). ATX-101 is an intravenous (IV) drug which blocks the interaction of a protein called PCNA with a number of "stress response" proteins. These interactions are thought to be important for cancer cell survival and growth. ATX-101 may disrupt these interactions and therefore help treat the cancer. In this study, all patients will receive the same treatment. Most of the exams, tests, and procedures are part of the usual approach to medical care for this condition. However, some additional tests or procedures may be performed, and other tests may be performed more frequently than usual.
Leiomyosarcoma|Liposarcoma
DRUG: ATX-101
Progression Free Rate (PFR), The study will evaluate the preliminary efficacy of ATX-101 in advanced L-sarcomas (LMS, LPS) by measuring the PFR (progression free rate) at 12 weeks (PFR12). Progression evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm (the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., 12 weeks
Number of Adverse Events, Counted per adverse event basis by grade as evaluated by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. The higher the grade, the more severe the event., Up to approximately 7 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The percentage of patients whose cancer shrinks or disappears after treatment. This will be measured by the percentage of patients having a complete or partial response per RECIST Version 1.1. ORR = Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR); CR defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm and PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to approximately 7 months|Duration of the Response, Duration of response is measured from the time the measurement criteria for an objective response is recorded until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented., Up to approximately 7 months|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), Median time from start treatment until the time of progression or death., Up to approximately 5 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), Median time from start of treatment until the time of death from any cause., Up to approximately 7 months
ATX-101 is a small molecule peptide comprised of a novel human proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) interacting motif termed APIM coupled to cellular and nuclear delivery domains. PCNA interacts with many cellular proteins and exerts pleiotropic effects in the cancer cell. Proteins that bind to PCNA via APIM are especially important in the cellular stress and DNA damage responses, as well as intracellular signaling, apoptosis, metabolism and anti-tumor immunity. In preclinical studies, ATX-101 demonstrated single-agent activity and potentiated other cytotoxic and targeted agents across multiple cancer models in vitro and in vivo, including LMS and LPS. ATX-101 is currently being evaluated in a phase 1 safety and pharmacokinetic study in solid tumors using a 3 + 3 dose escalation design. As of 10/29/2020, ATX-101 has been evaluated across dose levels of 20 mg/m2 - 60 mg/m2 IV weekly. Although no maximum tolerated dose (MTD) was reached, after review of the available safety data, the RP2D was determined to be 60 mg/m2 IV weekly, with no plans to dose escalate further. ATX-101 has been well tolerated, with no grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs) observed during the phase 1 study. Common AEs include grade 1/2 infusion related reactions (which have been easily managed with supportive care), mild fatigue and diarrhea. In this study, ATX-101 demonstrated encouraging activity as prolonged disease stabilization in patients with progressive, heavily pre-treated malignancies.