Infusion of 5-Azacytidine (5-AZA) Into the Fourth Ventricle in Children With Recurrent Posterior Fossa Ependymoma
The goal of this clinical research study is to establish the safety of direct administration of 5-Azacytidine into the fourth ventricle of the brain or resection cavity in patients with recurrent posterior fossa ependymoma.
Brain Tumor Recurrent
DRUG: 5-Azacytidine
Number of patients with grade 3 through grade 5 new neurological adverse events that are related to study drug, graded according to NCI CTCAE Version 4.0, New neurological deficit defined as new cranial neuropathy, nystagmus, change in mental status, motor deficit or cerebellar finding (ataxia, dysmetria, dysdiadochokinesis) that is attributed by treating physicians to intraventricular 5-Azacytidine infusions. Primary endpoint for basis of safety monitoring is acute toxicity occurring at any time within 30 days of receiving the intraventricular 5-Azacytidine infusion. Rate of acute toxicity monitored using Bayesian method of Thall and Sung. Method of Kaplan and Meier used to estimate unadjusted distributions o time to a neurological deficit and progression free survival time and summary statistic of all variable computed and tabulated., 4 months
If the participant is eligible to take part in this study, the participant will have surgery to place a catheter into the Ommaya reservoir. The Ommaya reservoir is a catheter system that allows drugs to be administered directly to parts of the brain. This catheter will used for the infusion of 5-Azacytidine directly into the 4th ventricle of the brain, which is 1 or the 4 connected fluid-filled cavities in the brain.

If the study doctor thinks it is necessary, based on the location of the tumor, the tumor may also be removed while the participant is already under anesthesia just before the catheter is placed.

Study Drug Administration:

The participant will receive 12 weekly (+/- one day) 10 mg infusions of 5-Azacytidine.

5-Azacytidine will be infused through the Ommaya reservoir catheter directly into the 4th ventricle of the brain starting at a minimum of 7 days after the catheter placement surgery. A MRI will be done to confirm adequate cerebrospinal fluid flow. The 5-Azacytidine infusion will last 2-3 minutes.

If the participant already has an Ommaya catheter, 5-Azacytidine will begin after an MRI has confirmed adequate cerebrospinal fluid flow.

Study Visits:

Prior to first infusion:

Medical history will be reviewed and any updates to health will be recorded. Physical and Neurological exam with vital signs will be done. Blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn for routine test. A lumbar puncture will be done. A MRI scan of the brain and spine will be done to check the status of the disease.

On the days of the 5-Azacytidine Infusion:

A neurological exam with vital signs will be done. A Ommaya reservoir tap (a catheter is placed into the Ommaya reservoir to give the 5-Azacytidine infusion.

Cerebrospinal fluid (about 1 teaspoon) will be collected for routine tests.

Within 7 days of completing the Final infusion:

A neurological exam with vital signs will be done. A lumbar puncture will be done. A MRI scan of the brain and spine will be done to check status of the disease.

Length of Study:

The participant will receive 12 infusions of 5-Azacytidine, as long as the doctor thinks it is in their best interest. The participant will no longer be able to receive the study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if unable to follow study directions.

This is an investigation study. 5-Azacytidine is FDA approved and commercially available to be given subcutaneous or into the bloodstream (intravenously) but has never been given in the 4th ventricle of the brain. The infusion of 5-Azacytidine into the 4th ventricle of the brain is investigational.

Up to 10 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at Children's Memorial Hermann Hospital