ABlative Radiotherapy (for) Unfavorable Prostate Tumors
Published clinical evidence confirms that a single dose of 24 Gy provides unprecedented long-term local control in primary and metastatic prostate cancer with safe toxicity profiles, provided that exposure of surrounding healthy tissues is critically assessed with fulfillment of strict constraints and dose distribution is accomplished using image guidance and tracking tools. In the present trial, intermediate unfavorable and selected high-risk organ-confined prostate cancer patients will undergo Single Dose Radiation Therapy (SDRT) With Focal Boost to the MRI-defined Macroscopic Tumor Volume by means of image-guided volumetric intensity-modulated arc radiotherapy (IGRT-VMAT) and state-of-the-art treatment-planning and quality assurance procedures. Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) type and duration has been set as per standard of care, in accordance with current recommendations and guidelines.
Prostate Cancer
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v.5.0, To assess treatment related gastrointestinal (GI) and genitourinary (GU) toxicity for patients who undergo SD RT with focal boost on dominant lesion(s) for intermediate unfavorable and selected high risk organ-confined prostate cancer., 60 months
QUALITY OF LIFE (QOL) assessed by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) Questionnaire. For each domain minimum symptom score (=0) means best QOL and maximum symptom score (=12) means worst QOL, To measure symptom scores for each QOL domain (urinary incontinence, urinary irritative/obstructive, bowel, sexual) after SDRT by EPIC-26 Questionnaire, 60 months|Number of participants with erectile dysfunction assessed by International Index of Erectile Function Questionnaire ranging from 5 (worst ) to 25 (best), To assess erectile function after SDRT using IIEF 5, 60 months|Number of participants with voiding symptoms assessed by International Prostatic Symptoms Score (IPSS), ranging from 0 (best) to 35 (worst), To assess voiding symptoms after SDRT using IPSS, 60 months|Number of participants with urinary incontinence assessed by International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF), ranging from 0 (best) to 21 (worst), To assess urinary continence after SDRT using ICIQ-SF, 60 months|Number of participants with biochemical relapse assessed by PSA (Phoenix definition), To assess biochemical outcome after SDRT using serum PSA levels, 60 months
Patients enrolled in this observational prospective trial will be offered image-guided, volumetric modulated radiotherapy (IGRT-VMAT) in a single session (SDRT) of 21 Gy to the whole gland with a simultaneous boost of 24 Gy to the macroscopic PI-RADS driven (4-5) tumour(s). ADT will be prescribed concomitantly, as per standard of care. A real time non-ionizing prostate monitoring will be used to account for intra-fractional errors. If the dose constraints to the normal tissues are at risk, these will be prioritised over the aimed boost dose. The primary endpoint of the trial is the treatment related toxicity measured by the CTCAE v5.0. Secondary endpoints are quality of life in different domains (sexual, rectal , urinary) and biochemical outcome.

Patients will be followed at one month, then every 3 months for the first 12 months and every 6 months thereafter. Quality of Life will be prospectively evaluated through validated tools (ECOG, EPIC, IIEF-5, IPSS, ICIQ-SF) at various timepoints. Percentage or total mean score will be reported according the questionnaires, whether they grade values in a scale or use descriptive statistics. Kaplan-Meier curve analysis of biochemical relapse free survival (b-RFS) at 2 and 5-year bRFS for all patients will be estimated.