Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Human Papilloma Virus-Related Cervical Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well ipilimumab works in treating patients with human papilloma virus (HPV)-related cervical cancer that has come back or that has spread to other areas of the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab, can find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them.
Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Human Papillomavirus Infection|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Number of Adverse Events, Graded According to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.0, Cumulative count of adverse events meeting the criteria of: frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest., Up to 1 year|Objective Response Rate Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 1 year
Antitumor Activity (Partial Response, Complete Response, and Stable Disease) Using Immune-related Response Criteria (irRC), Immune-Related Complete Response (irCR): complete disappearance of all lesions for at least 4 weeks from the date of documentation of complete response. Immune-Related Partial Response (irPR): The sum of the products of the two largest perpendicular diameters of all index lesions is measured and captured as the SPD baseline. At each subsequent tumor assessment, the sum of the products of the two largest perpendicular diameters of all index lesions and of new measurable lesions are added together to provide the Immune Response Sum of Product Diameters (irSPD). A decrease, relative to baseline of the irSPD compared to the previous SPD baseline, of 50% or greater is considered an immune Partial Response (irPR). irStable Disease (irSD): does not meet criteria for irCR or irPR, in the absence of progressive disease., Up to 1 year|Biologic Responses of Exposure to Ipilimumab by Analysis of Lymphocyte Subsets and Assessment of Cervical Cancer-antigen Specific T Cells Anti-tumor Response, Number of Participants with Cervical Cancer-antigen Specific T Cells Anti-tumor Response, Up to 1 year|Disease Stabilization, As per RECIST v1.1, stable disease (SD) is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD., Up to 1 year|Markers of Immune Population, Evaluated in Archival Tissue, Evaluation of archival tissue with regard to markers of immune population in correlation with clinical stage and response to treatment, Baseline to 1 year after treatment|Predictive Value of Baseline C-reactive Protein, Up to week 3 of course 4|Progression Free Survival, Progressive disease (PD), as per RECIST v1.1, is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions and an absolute increase of at least 5mm, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Computed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of ipilimumab in eligible patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer.

II. To assess the antitumor activity of ipilimumab in eligible patients with recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer via assessment of objective response rates (ORR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the antitumor activity of ipilimumab through secondary endpoints including of disease stabilization and progression free survival (PFS).

II. Assessment of antitumor activity of ipilimumab using immune-related response criteria (irRC) III. Assessment of the predictive value of baseline C-reactive protein. IV. Assess the biologic responses of exposure to ipilimumab via correlative studies involving analysis of lymphocyte subsets and assessment of cervical cancer-antigen specific T cells anti-tumor response.

V. Evaluation of archival tissue with regard to markers of immune population in correlation with clinical stage and response to treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving objective response or stable disease continue to receive maintenance therapy comprising ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes once every 12 weeks for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.