Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Locally Recurrent or Metastatic Cancer of the Urothelium
Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. This phase II trial is studying how well vorinostat works in treating patients with locally recurrent or metastatic cancer of the urothelium.
Localized Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Metastatic Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Recurrent Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Regional Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder
DRUG: vorinostat|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Tumor Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Response assessed after every 2 cycles (6 weeks) up to 26 weeks
Overall Survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 26 weeks|Progression-free Survial, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression defined using RECIST v1.0 criteria, at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., assessed up to 26 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine response rate measured by RECIST criteria for SAHA in patients with recurrent or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the time to progression and overall survival for SAHA in patients with recurrent or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium.

II. To provide data on safety and toxicity of SAHA in patients with recurrent or metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the urothelium.

III. To obtain preliminary data on molecular correlates in tissue, oral mucosa and blood to determine feasibility and clinical efficacy.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral vorinostat (SAHA) twice daily on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood and buccal mucosa collection and tumor biopsies (if accessible) at baseline and periodically during study for correlative studies. Samples are examined by gene expression profiling and immunohistochemistry.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 26 weeks.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 37 patients will be accrued for this study.