Guadecitabine and Atezolizumab in Treating Patients With Advanced Myelodysplastic Syndrome or Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia That Is Refractory or Relapsed
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of guadecitabine when given together with atezolizumab and to see how well they work in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia that has spread to other places in the body and has come back or does not respond to treatment. Guadecitabine may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving guadecitabine and atezolizumab may work better in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Myelodysplasia-Related Changes
DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Guadecitabine
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (Phase I), Descriptive summaries and analyses of CTCAE 4.0 toxicities that occur will be produced, both by patient and by cycle., Up to 56 days|Overall response (complete response [CR] + partial response + marrow CR + hematological improvement) (Phase II), Up to 168 days
Incidence of grade 3 or higher adverse events and grade 2 toxicities that do not resolve after 3 weeks assessed by CTCAE 4.0, Descriptive summaries of toxicities that occur will be produced, both by patient and by course., Up to 8 weeks|Overall response rate (Phase II), Up to 4 years|Overall survival, Will be analyzed using survival analysis methods., From start of treatment to death from any cause, assessed up to 4 years|Percentage of patients who were transfusion-dependent on study entry who become transfusion-independent, Up to 4 years|Progression free survival, Will be analyzed using survival analysis methods., From start of treatment to the first disease progression or recurrence, assessed up to 4 years|Time to best response, Will be analyzed using survival analysis methods., Up to 4 years
Degree of PD-L1 expression assessed in bone marrow, T cells, and malignant cells by immunohistochemistry or flow cytometry, Up to 4 years|PD-1 expression by T cells and malignant cells, Relationship of PD-1/PD-L1 expression to efficacy endpoints will be explored., Up to 4 years|Percentage of T cells expressing PD-1/methylation levels, Up to 4 years|T-cell antigen recognition in MDS blood and bone marrow, Relationship of T-cell antigen recognition to efficacy endpoints will be explored., Up to 4 years|T-cell subset combinations in MDS blood and bone marrow, Relationship of T-cell subset combination to efficacy endpoints will be explored., Up to 4 years|Tumor antigen expression on MDS blasts, Relationship of tumor expression to efficacy endpoints will be explored., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify a safe dose of guadecitabine in combination with atezolizumab and to assess the safety and tolerability of the combination in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) who are refractory to or have lost their confirmed response to one or more hypomethylating agents (HMAs) and in patients with newly diagnosed MDS.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of guadecitabine in combination with atezolizumab for the treatment of patients with MDS who are refractory to or have lost their confirmed response to one or more HMAs.

III. To evaluate the efficacy of guadecitabine in combination with atezolizumab for the treatment of patients with newly diagnosis MDS.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure the impact of the combination of guadecitabine and atezolizumab on overall survival among patients with relapsed/refractory MDS.

II. To measure the impact of the combination of guadecitabine and atezolizumab on overall survival among patients with treatment-naive MDS.

III. To evaluate the impact of the combination of guadecitabine and atezolizumab on the duration of response in patients with relapsed/refractory MDS and treatment-naive MDS.

IV. To evaluate the impact of the combination of guadecitabine and atezolizumab on transfusion-dependence among patients with relapsed/refractory and treatment-naive MDS.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the baseline expression/methylation of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) in T cells among patients with relapsed, refractory and treatment-naive MDS.

II. To quantify the impact of combination therapy with guadecitabine and atezolizumab on PD-1 expression/methylation in T cells.

III. To correlate response with expression/methylation of PD-1 by T cells and with expression of programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) in the bone marrow of patients with MDS treated with guadecitabine and atezolizumab.

IV. To investigate the expression of tumor antigens on MDS blasts during combination therapy with guadecitabine and atezolizumab V. To investigate the specific T-cell subsets in MDS blood and bone marrow during combination therapy with guadecitabine and atezolizumab.

VI. To investigate the specific antigens (epitopes) which are recognized by T-cells in MDS blood and bone marrow during combination therapy with guadecitabine and atezolizumab.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of guadecitabine followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5 and atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 8 and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 or 90 days and every 6 months thereafter.