SCRI Tissue Testing Registry
Sarah Cannon Research Institute (SCRI) is committed to improvement and excellence in clinical research and correlative science. To this end, the SCRI Oncology Research Consortium will collect written consent from patients allowing the use of their tumor tissue sample(s) for testing/analysis at a future date. Future testing may include assays for newly identified markers of potential prognostic and/or therapeutic value. These markers may be specific to an individual cancer type, or they may be present more generally in cancer and/or other conditions.
Melanoma|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Multiple Myeloma|Lymphoma
OTHER: Tissue Registry Study
To establish an electronic registry to store information from patients who have provided their consent allowing use of their tissue sample(s) for future testing., 120 months|To perform testing on the tissue samples to learn more about specific types of cancer and/or other diseases, 120 months
Sarah Cannon Research Institute (SCRI) is committed to improvement and excellence in clinical research and correlative science. To this end, the SCRI Oncology Research Consortium will collect written consent from patients allowing the use of their tumor tissue sample(s) for testing/analysis at a future date. Future testing may include assays for newly identified markers of potential prognostic and/or therapeutic value. These markers may be specific to an individual cancer type, or they may be present more generally in cancer and/or other conditions.

This study will consist of a registry of patients who have agreed to allow their tissue sample(s) (even those taken prior to their participation in an SCRI-sponsored trial) to be used by the SCRI Oncology Research Consortium at some point in the future for testing and analysis of expression analysis and/or analysis of tumor markers. The registry will be contained in an electronic database, and will be sorted by disease indication. (Note: Patients will not be asked to return at a future date and have tissue samples collected; rather, SCRI will have the authorization to obtain pre-existing samples).