Mobile App to Help Survivors of Childhood Cancer Navigate Long-Term Follow-Up Care
This clinical trial studies the effectiveness of a newly developed survivorship mobile application (app) designed for survivors, or their caregivers, of childhood cancer to help them better navigate long-term follow-up care. The survivorship app provides survivors access to their treatment history and follow-up recommendations, improves knowledge of their diagnosis, treatment, risks, and recommended follow-up care by using a message notification. The ability to quickly connect and establish care planning may enhance adherence to recommended follow-up.
Childhood Cancer|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Survivorship mobile application|OTHER: Questionnaires
Change in knowledge questionnaire score, The knowledge of the participant will be measured using a 12-item questionnaire that assesses the awareness of their treatment and health issues in four categories: (1) diagnosis, (2) treatment, (3) risks, and (4) recommended follow-up. A scoring system has been devised which will give a score to each questionnaire out of 100 possible points. The change in participants knowledge scores \>=20 points from baseline will be reported., Up to 4 months
System usability scale (SUS) score > 68, System Usability Scale (SUS) consists of a 10-item survey with five response options from Strongly agree to Strongly disagree. The scoring of positive questions is done as follows: The user's score is reduced by one point. For example, if the user's score is 4 for question 5, then the outcome score will be 3. The scoring of negative questions is done as follows: The user's score is subtracted from 5. For example, if the user's score is 3 for question 4, then the new score will be 2. After all the scores are determined, the sum of the scores is multiplied by 2.5 to make the range between 0 and 100. Scores above 68 are considered above average. The proportion of participants with an acceptable usability score \> 68 will be reported., Up to 2 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the difference in survivor/caregiver knowledge and understanding of diagnosis, treatment information, and follow-up needs using the survivorship app.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To validate the usability and effectiveness of the survivorship mobile application.

OUTLINE:

Participants are seen in the survivorship clinic and receive education about potential late effects and the survivorship application on study. Participants then use the survivorship app for 4 months on study.