Trial of Plitidepsin (Aplidin®) in Combination With Bortezomib and Dexamethasone in Multiple Myeloma Patients Double Refractory to Bortezomib and Lenalidomide
This is a multi-center, open-label, single arm, non-comparative phase II trial, designed to evaluate the efficacy of plitidepsin in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with Multiple Myeloma (MM) double refractory to bortezomib and lenalidomide.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: plitidepsin|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall Response, Partial response (PR): ≥50% reduction in serum M-protein and reduction of 24-hour urine M-protein by 90% or to \<200 mg/24h Minimal response (MR): ≥25% but ≤49% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction of 24h urine M-protein 50-89%.

Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions Stable disease (SD): not meet the criteria for PR, MR or PD Primary analysis should have been done once a total of 64 patients have received plitidepsin+BTZ+DXM with one futility analysis planned after the inclusion of 20 evaluable patients that had completed two full treatment cycles. Only 10 patients were treatedand 8 evaluable for the primary endpoint (ORR according to IMWG criteria). As a result of slow patient accrual, the study was closed before reaching the target enrollment, From the date of first drug administration to the date of at least one disease assessment, up to 100 weeks|Overall Response Rate, The primary endpoint was overall response rate (ORR) (including stringent complete response \[sCR\], complete response \[CR\], very good partial response \[VGPR\] and partial response \[PR\]), according to the IMWG response criteria., From the date of first drug administration to the date of at least one disease assessment, up to 100 weeks
Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate defined as minimal response or better, From the date of first drug administration to the date of at least one disease assessment, up to 100 weeks|Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate defined as stable disease \[SD\] or better, From the date of first drug administration to the date of at least one disease assessment, up to 100 weeks|Duration of Response, Duration of Response defined as the time, in months, from the date of first documentation of response to the date of disease progression. Response was assessed according to the IMWG classification response criteria., From the date of first documentation of response to the date of disease progression, up to 100 weeks|Time to Progression, Time to progression (TTP) was defined as the time, in months, from the date of the first infusion to the date of documented PD or death due to PD. TTP was to be censored on the date of the last tumor assessment or on the date of the first drug administration if there were no tumor assessments.

Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of the first infusion to the date of documented PD or death due to PD, up to 100 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Progression Disease at 3 Months, Progression disease was defined as documented PD or death due to PD Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of the first infusion to the date of documented PD or death due to PD, up to 3 months|Percentage of Participants With Progression Disease at 6 Months, Progression disease was defined as documented PD or death due to PD. Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions, From the date of the first infusion to the date of documented PD or death due to PD, up to 6 months|Percentage of Participants With Progression Disease at 12 Months, Progression disease was defined as documented PD or death due to PD. Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of the first infusion to the date of documented PD or death due to PD, up to 12 months|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time, in months, from the date of first drug administration to the date of documented PD, or death (of any cause). If any patient was lost to follow-up before PD or received another antitumor therapy, PFS was to be censored on the date of the last tumor assessment. If there were no tumor assessments, these parameters were to be censored on the date of the first drug administration.

Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of first drug administration to the date of documented PD, or death (of any cause), up to 100 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival at 3 Months, Progression-free Survival was defined as documented PD, or death of any cause. Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of first drug administration to the date of documented PD, or death (of any cause), up to 3 months|Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival at 6 Months, Progression-free Survival was defined as documented PD, or death of any cause. Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of first drug administration to the date of documented PD, or death (of any cause), up to 6 months|Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival at 12 Months, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time, in months, from the date of first drug administration to the date of documented PD, or death (of any cause). If any patient was lost to follow-up before PD or received another antitumor therapy, PFS was to be censored on the date of the last tumor assessment. If there were no tumor assessments, these parameters were to be censored on the date of the first drug administration Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of first drug administration to the date of documented PD, or death (of any cause), up to 12 months|Event-free Survival, Event-free survival (EFS) was defined as the time, in months, from the date of first drug administration to the date of onset of the first drug-related event leading to treatment discontinuation, documented PD or death. The censoring rules defined above for PFS were used for EFS, From the date of first drug administration to the date of onset of the first drug-related event leading to treatment discontinuation, documented PD or death, up to 100 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Event-free Survival at 3 Months, Event-free survival (EFS) was defined as the first drug-related event leading to treatment discontinuation, documented PD or death.

rogressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of first drug administration to the date of onset of the first drug-related event leading to treatment discontinuation, documented PD or death, up to 3 months|Percentage of Participants With Event-free Survival at 6 Months, Event-free survival (EFS) was defined as the first drug-related event leading to treatment discontinuation, documented PD or death.

Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of first drug administration to the date of onset of the first drug-related event leading to treatment discontinuation, documented PD or death, up to 6 months|Percentage of Participants With Event-free Survival at 12 Months, Event-free survival (EFS) was defined as the first drug-related event leading to treatment discontinuation, documented PD or death.

Progressive disease (PD): 25% increase from the lowest response value in any of the following: serum M-protein, urine M-protein, BM plasma cell percentage, or difference in the kappa and lambda FLC. PD also diagnosed when an increase size or new bone lesions., From the date of first drug administration to the date of onset of the first drug-related event leading to treatment discontinuation, documented PD or death, up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time, in months, from the date of first drug administration to the date of death (of any cause) or last patient contact (in this case, survival was to be censored on that date)., From the date of first drug administration to the date of death (of any cause) or last patient contact, up to 100 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival at 6 Months, Overall survival (OS) was defined as death of any cause., From the date of first drug administration to the date of death (of any cause) or last patient contact, up to 6 months|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival at 12 Months, Overall survival (OS) was defined as death of any cause., From the date of first drug administration to the date of death (of any cause) or last patient contact, up to 12 months
This is a multi-center, open-label, single arm, non-comparative phase II trial, designed to evaluate the efficacy of plitidepsin in combination with bortezomib and dexamethasone in patients with MM double refractory to bortezomib and lenalidomide.The primary endpoint will be overall response rate (ORR), including stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR) and partial response (PR).

Approximately 64 evaluable patients will be needed for the evaluation of the primary endpoint, ORR.

An early futility analysis will be performed with the efficacy data collected from the first 20 evaluable patients. The futility analysis will commence once patient number 20 has completed two full treatment cycles. Patient recruitment will not be halted during the conduct of this futility analysis.