Home Based Daratumumab Administration for Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This clinical trial tests the treatment effect of home based daratumumab administration in treating patients with multiple myeloma. Darzalex Faspro is a combination of two drugs (daratumumab and hyaluronidase) used to treat adults with multiple myeloma. Daratumumab is in a class of medications called monoclonal antibodies. It works by helping the body to slow or stop the growth of cancer cells. Hyaluronidase-fihj is an endoglycosidase. It helps to keep daratumumab in the body longer so that the medication will have a greater effect. Standard medical care requires Darzalex-Faspro treatment be administered during visits to the cancer center. Receiving medication in the home setting, may decrease cost and burden of care in patients with multiple myeloma.
Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Daratumumab and Hyaluronidase-fihj|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Interview
Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The mean difference in CTSQ scores between home and infusion center will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence interval and tested (null hypothesis of zero mean difference) using appropriate model-based contrast with alpha 0.05., At Visit 1,Baseline|Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The mean difference in CTSQ scores between home and infusion center will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence interval and tested (null hypothesis of zero mean difference) using appropriate model-based contrast with alpha 0.05., At Visit 2, Day29|Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The mean difference in CTSQ scores between home and infusion center will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence interval and tested (null hypothesis of zero mean difference) using appropriate model-based contrast with alpha 0.05., At Visit 3, Day 57|Treatment satisfactionwill be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The mean difference in CTSQ scores between home and infusion center will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence interval and tested (null hypothesis of zero mean difference) using appropriate model-based contrast with alpha 0.05., At Visit 4, Day 85|Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The mean difference in CTSQ scores between home and infusion center will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence interval and tested (null hypothesis of zero mean difference) using appropriate model-based contrast with alpha 0.05., At Visit 5, Day 113|Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The mean difference in CTSQ scores between home and infusion center will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence interval and tested (null hypothesis of zero mean difference) using appropriate model-based contrast with alpha 0.05., At Visit 6, Day 141|Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The mean difference in CTSQ scores between home and infusion center will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence interval and tested (null hypothesis of zero mean difference) using appropriate model-based contrast with alpha 0.05., At Visit 7, Day 169|Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Treatment satisfaction will be measured using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The mean difference in CTSQ scores between home and infusion center will be computed with the corresponding 95% confidence interval and tested (null hypothesis of zero mean difference) using appropriate model-based contrast with alpha 0.05., At Visit 8, Day 197
Medication adherence in home setting, Adherence is defined as completing administration of medication in the home setting. Adherence will be measured for each dose given and failure would occur if the participant needs to go to the infusion center for administration for whatever reason. Based on previous studies of home based administration adherence rates over 75% would be needed to meet criteria for feasibility. The adherence at the home setting cycles will be analyzed in repeated measures logistic regression model with a random effect of patient and the fixed effect of the delivery mode (home vs. infusion center). The model will be used to compute the average rate of home setting adherence with the corresponding 95% confidence interval., At Visit 3,Day 57|Medication adherence in home setting, Adherence is defined as completing administration of medication in the home setting. Adherence will be measured for each dose given and failure would occur if the participant needs to go to the infusion center for administration for whatever reason. Based on previous studies of home based administration adherence rates over 75% would be needed to meet criteria for feasibility. The adherence at the home setting cycles will be analyzed in repeated measures logistic regression model with a random effect of patient and the fixed effect of the delivery mode (home vs. infusion center). The model will be used to compute the average rate of home setting adherence with the corresponding 95% confidence interval., At Visit 4,Day 85|Medication adherence in home setting, Adherence is defined as completing administration of medication in the home setting. Adherence will be measured for each dose given and failure would occur if the participant needs to go to the infusion center for administration for whatever reason. Based on previous studies of home based administration adherence rates over 75% would be needed to meet criteria for feasibility. The adherence at the home setting cycles will be analyzed in repeated measures logistic regression model with a random effect of patient and the fixed effect of the delivery mode (home vs. infusion center). The model will be used to compute the average rate of home setting adherence with the corresponding 95% confidence interval., At Visit 5,Day 113|Medication adherence in home setting, Adherence is defined as completing administration of medication in the home setting. Adherence will be measured for each dose given and failure would occur if the participant needs to go to the infusion center for administration for whatever reason. Based on previous studies of home based administration adherence rates over 75% would be needed to meet criteria for feasibility. The adherence at the home setting cycles will be analyzed in repeated measures logistic regression model with a random effect of patient and the fixed effect of the delivery mode (home vs. infusion center). The model will be used to compute the average rate of home setting adherence with the corresponding 95% confidence interval., At Visit 6,Day 141|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30)., Measurement of quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30). This would be rated on a 1- 4 scale with 4 being the worse outcome., At Visit 1, Baseline|Quality of life Questionnaire, Measurement of quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30).This would be rated on a 1- 4 scale with 4 being the worse outcome., At Visit 2, Day 29|Quality of life Questionnaire, Measurement of quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30). This would be rated on a 1- 4 scale with 4 being the worse outcome., At Visit 3, Day 57|Quality of life Questionnaire, Measurement of quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30). This would be rated on a 1- 4 scale with 4 being the worse outcome., At Visit 4, Day 85|Quality of life Questionnaire, Measurement of quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30). This would be rated on a 1- 4 scale with 4 being the worse outcome., At Visit 5, Day 113|Quality of life Questionnaire, Measurement of quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30).This would be rated on a 1- 4 scale with 4 being the worse outcome., At Visit 6, Day 141|Quality of life Questionnaire, Measurement of quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30).This would be rated on a 1- 4 scale with 4 being the worse outcome., At Visit 7, Day 169|Quality of life Questionnaire, Measurement of quality of life will be measured using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-30).This would be rated on a 1- 4 scale with 4 being the worse outcome., At Visit 8, Day 197|Financial toxicity, Financial toxicity will be measured using the COST survey., At Visit 1, Baseline|Financial toxicity, Financial toxicity will be measured using the COST survey., At Visit 2, Day 29|Financial toxicity, Financial toxicity will be measured using the COST survey., At Visit 3, Day 57|Financial toxicity, Financial toxicity will be measured using the COST survey., At Visit 4, Day 85|Financial toxicity, Financial toxicity will be measured using the COST survey., At Visit 5, Day 113|Financial toxicity, Financial toxicity will be measured using the COST survey., At Visit 6, Day 141|Financial toxicity, Financial toxicity will be measured using the COST survey., At Visit 7, Day 169|Financial toxicity, Financial toxicity will be measured using the COST survey., At Visit 8, Day 197|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated through collection of adverse events, administration reactions related to Darzalex-Faspro, At Visit 2, Day 29|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated through collection of adverse events, administration reactions related to Darzalex-Faspro, At Visit 3, Day 57|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated through collection of adverse events, administration reactions related to Darzalex-Faspro, At Visit 4, Day 85|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated through collection of adverse events, administration reactions related to Darzalex-Faspro, At Visit 5, Day 113|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated through collection of adverse events, administration reactions related to Darzalex-Faspro, At Visit 6, Day 141|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated through collection of adverse events, administration reactions related to Darzalex-Faspro, At Visit 7, Day 169|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated through collection of adverse events, administration reactions related to Darzalex-Faspro, At Visit 8, Day 197|Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated through collection of adverse events, administration reactions related to Darzalex-Faspro, At Visit 9, Day 198|Barriers to home administration, Barriers to home administration will be measured through a questionnaire administered to the subject that asks about any delays in treatment related to delivery of medication, arrival time of the infusion nurse, issues related to storage of medication, issues related to administration of the medication. Questions will have the same unit of measure Yes/No., At Visit 3, Day 57|Barriers to home administration, Barriers to home administration will be measured through a questionnaire administered to the subject that asks about any delays in treatment related to delivery of medication, arrival time of the infusion nurse, issues related to storage of medication, issues related to administration of the medication. Questions have the same unit of measure Yes/No., At Visit 4, Day 85|Barriers to home administration, Barriers to home administration will be measured through a questionnaire administered to the subject that asks about any delays in treatment related to delivery of medication, arrival time of the infusion nurse, issues related to storage of medication, issues related to administration of the medication. Questions have the same unit of measure Yes/No., At Visit 5, Day 113|Barriers to home administration, Barriers to home administration will be measured through a questionnaire administered to the subject that asks about any delays in treatment related to delivery of medication, arrival time of the infusion nurse, issues related to storage of medication, issues related to administration of the medication. Questions have the same unit of measure Yes/No., At Visit 6, Day 141
Patient perceptions of home based anti-neoplastic therapy, Patient perceptions of home based anti-neoplastic therapy will be measured through semi-structured interviews., At Visit 3, Day 29|Patient perceptions of home based anti-neoplastic therapy, Patient perceptions of home based anti-neoplastic therapy will be measured through semi-structured interviews., At Visit 4, Day 57|Patient perceptions of home based anti-neoplastic therapy, Patient perceptions of home based anti-neoplastic therapy will be measured through semi-structured interviews., At Visit 5, Day 85|Patient perceptions of home based anti-neoplastic therapy, Patient perceptions of home based anti-neoplastic therapy will be measured through semi-structured interviews., At Visit 6, Day 113|Opportunity cost, Opportunity cost will be measured through the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool (OOCAT) survey., At Visit 1, Baseline|Opportunity cost, Opportunity cost will be measured through the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool (OOCAT) survey., At Visit 2, Day 29|Opportunity cost, Opportunity cost will be measured through the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool (OOCAT) survey., At Visit 3, Day 57|Opportunity cost, Opportunity cost will be measured through the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool (OOCAT) survey., At Visit 4, Day 85|Opportunity cost, Opportunity cost will be measured through the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool (OOCAT) survey., At Visit 5, Day 113|Opportunity cost, Opportunity cost will be measured through the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool (OOCAT) survey., At Visit 6, Day 141|Opportunity cost, Opportunity cost will be measured through the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool (OOCAT) survey., At Visit 7, Day 169|Opportunity cost, Opportunity cost will be measured through the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool (OOCAT) survey., At Visit 8, Day 197
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate treatment burden (using the Cancer Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire \[CTSQ\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine adherence to home delivery of daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj (darzalex faspro).

II. Evaluate quality of life (using European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire \[EORTC QLQ-30\]) based on site of care (home versus \[vs.\] infusion center).

III. Evaluate financial burden (using the COST survey) based on site of care (home vs. infusion center).

IV. Evaluate Safety of home administration of darzalex-faspro. V. Evaluate barriers to home administration.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate patient perceptions of home administration of anti-neoplastic therapy.

II. Evaluate opportunity cost based on site of care (home vs. infusion center) (using the Oncology Opportunity Cost Assessment Tool \[OOCAT\] survey).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj subcutaneously (SC) over 3-5 minutes in the infusion center on day 1 of cycles 1, 2, 7, and 8 and at home on day 1 of cycles 3, 4, 5, and 6. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 months.