Donor Bone Marrow Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Controlling Heart Failure in Patients With Cardiomyopathy Caused by Anthracyclines
This randomized pilot phase I trial studies the side effects of donor bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells in controlling heart failure in patients with cardiomyopathy caused by anthracyclines. Donor bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells may help to control symptoms of heart failure and improve heart function.
Cardiomyopathy|Heart Failure|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation
Incidence of adverse events, Statistical analyses of safety will be descriptive., Up to 6 months|Change in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), The comparison will be between the two groups of patients., Baseline to 6 months
Change in improvement of left ventricular (LV) systolic function as assessed by LVEF, As regards statistical analyses, the results of the trial will be displayed in table format. Will provide confidence intervals of the differences in change from baseline between each investigational group and the control group. If both investigation groups are significant at the p \< .05 level, then the two investigational drugs can be compared using a gatekeeping procedure. These intervals and the associated p-values will be calculated using two-sample t-tests, with no adjustments for multiple comparisons., Baseline up to 6 months|LV end-systolic and end-diastolic volumes as determined by contrast-enhanced 2-dimensional(D)/3D echography, As regards statistical analyses, the results of the trial will be displayed in table format. Will provide confidence intervals of the differences in change from baseline between each investigational group and the control group. If both investigation groups are significant at the p \< .05 level, then the two investigational drugs can be compared using a gatekeeping procedure. These intervals and the associated p-values will be calculated using two-sample t-tests, with no adjustments for multiple comparisons., Up to 6 months|Cardiac death, As regards statistical analyses, the results of the trial will be displayed in table format. Will provide confidence intervals of the differences in change from baseline between each investigational group and the control group. If both investigation groups are significant at the p \< .05 level, then the two investigational drugs can be compared using a gatekeeping procedure. These intervals and the associated p-values will be calculated using two-sample t-tests, with no adjustments for multiple comparisons., Up to 6 months|Re-hospitalization after heart failure, As regards statistical analyses, the results of the trial will be displayed in table format. Will provide confidence intervals of the differences in change from baseline between each investigational group and the control group. If both investigation groups are significant at the p \< .05 level, then the two investigational drugs can be compared using a gatekeeping procedure. These intervals and the associated p-values will be calculated using two-sample t-tests, with no adjustments for multiple comparisons., Up to 6 months|Aborted death from an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) firing, As regards statistical analyses, the results of the trial will be displayed in table format. Will provide confidence intervals of the differences in change from baseline between each investigational group and the control group. If both investigation groups are significant at the p \< .05 level, then the two investigational drugs can be compared using a gatekeeping procedure. These intervals and the associated p-values will be calculated using two-sample t-tests, with no adjustments for multiple comparisons., Up to 6 months|Nonfatal myocardial infarction, As regards statistical analyses, the results of the trial will be displayed in table format. Will provide confidence intervals of the differences in change from baseline between each investigational group and the control group. If both investigation groups are significant at the p \< .05 level, then the two investigational drugs can be compared using a gatekeeping procedure. These intervals and the associated p-values will be calculated using two-sample t-tests, with no adjustments for multiple comparisons., Up to 6 months|Revascularization, As regards statistical analyses, the results of the trial will be displayed in table format. Will provide confidence intervals of the differences in change from baseline between each investigational group and the control group. If both investigation groups are significant at the p \< .05 level, then the two investigational drugs can be compared using a gatekeeping procedure. These intervals and the associated p-values will be calculated using two-sample t-tests, with no adjustments for multiple comparisons., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To demonstrate the safety of allogeneic human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) administered by intravenous infusion and transendocardial injection in patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction and heart failure secondary to chemotherapy with anthracyclines.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To demonstrate the efficacy of allogeneic hMSCs administered by intravenous infusion and transendocardial injection in patients with left ventricular dysfunction (left ventricular ejection fraction \[LVEF\] \< 40%) and heart failure secondary to treatment with anthracyclines.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive hMSCs intravenously (IV) over 10-20 minutes on days 1, 14, 21, and 28 and standard of care treatment for heart failure in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive hMSCs transendocardially for a total of 15 injections and standard of care treatment for heart failure in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Patients receive standard of care treatment for heart failure.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.