Gemcitabine, Paclitaxel, Doxorubicin in Metastatic or Unresectable Bladder Cancer With Decreased Kidney Function
This phase II trial is studying how well giving gemcitabine, paclitaxel, and doxorubicin together with pegfilgrastim works in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable bladder cancer or urinary tract cancer and kidney dysfunction. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, paclitaxel, and doxorubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Colony stimulating factors, such as pegfilgrastim, may increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help the immune system recover from the side effects of chemotherapy. Giving combination chemotherapy together with pegfilgrastim may kill more tumor cells. Chemotherapy drugs may have different effects in patients who have changes in their kidney function.
Distal Urethral Cancer|Metastatic Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Proximal Urethral Cancer|Recurrent Bladder Cancer|Recurrent Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Recurrent Urethral Cancer|Regional Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Stage III Bladder Cancer|Stage IV Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder|Urethral Cancer Associated With Invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: Pegfilgrastim
Objective Response Rate, The percentage of participants with either Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) in their disease burden based upon the rules of the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). A participant with of all of the lesions disappearing is a CR. A participant with at least a 30 percent decrease in the measured lesions is a PR., Up to 12 weeks, or following completion 6 cycles of chemotherapy, respectively; the best response achieved within 6 cycles of starting chemotherapy used to calculate response rate.
Overall Survival (OS) of Participants With a Continuous Complete Response, Partial Response and Stable Disease, The overall survival was determined by grouping participants based upon their response based on RECIST. The groups are Complete Response(CR): All the cancerous lesion disappear, Partial Response (PR): All the measured lesions decrease by at least 30 percent, and Stable Disease(SD): No significant change in the disease burden. OS of complete response or partial response participants were compared to the reference group of stable disease participants in a Hazard Ratio(HR). If HR is greater than 1, the experimental group has a better outcome than the reference group. If HR is less than 1, the reference group has the better outcome., Registration Date of each participant for up to three years or death whichever came first|Safety and Efficacy of Same-day Pegfilgrastim, Determined the number of participants who had either a fever due to abnormally low level of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell, on the day of study drug treatment, or the participants who had the study drug treatment delayed due to an abnormally low level of neutrophils., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the efficacy of gemcitabine hydrochloride, paclitaxel, doxorubicin hydrochloride, and pegfilgrastim, in terms of response rate, in patients with metastatic or unresectable transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder or urinary tract and renal insufficiency.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients. II. Determine the median time to progression in patients treated with this regimen.

III. Determine the median survival duration in patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Assess the safety and efficacy of pegfilgrastim in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenous (IV) over 20 minutes, paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 9 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years.