DATO-BASE: DATOpotamab-deruxtecan for Breast Cancer Brain metAstaSEs
The purpose of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of the study drug datopotamab deruxtecan in participants with metastatic breast cancer that has spread to the brain.

The name of the study drug used in this research study is:

Datopotamab deruxtecan (a type of antibody-drug conjugate)
Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer Female|Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|ER Positive Breast Cancer|HER2-negative Breast Cancer|HER2 Negative Breast Carcinoma|ER-negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Datopotamab Deruxtecan
Objective Response Rate (ORR) in RANO-BM Criteria, The objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RANO-BM criteria defined protocol section 11.1.1., 3 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECISTv1.1 criteria., 3 years|Clinical Benefit Rate at 18 weeks (CBR18), CBR defined as proportion of participants with defined as intracranial CR, intracranial PR, or stable disease (SD) in both intracranial and extracranial sites ≥ 18 (CBR18) . In the case of intracranial CR or PR, to be considered clinical benefit, extracranial disease must also be stable or better at the time of intracranial response. CBR will be reported for Cohort A and Cohort B only, 18 Weeks|Clinical Benefit Rate at 24 weeks (CBR24), CBR defined as proportion of participants with defined as intracranial CR, intracranial PR, or stable disease (SD) in both intracranial and extracranial sites ≥ 24 (CBR24) . In the case of intracranial CR or PR, to be considered clinical benefit, extracranial disease must also be stable or better at the time of intracranial response. CBR will be reported for Cohort A and Cohort B only, 24 Weeks|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration between randomization and documented disease progression (PD) defined per RANO-BM criteria. or death, or is censored at time of last disease assessment., Assessed from date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to 3 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Assessed from date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause, up to 3 years|Site of First Progression, Site of first progression defined as the number of participants has progression in each sites. Progression defined per RANO-BM criteria., Assessed from date of enrollment until the date of first progression from any cause, up to 3 years|Grade 3-5 Treatment-related Toxicity Rate, All grade 3-5 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 that are not resolved in accordance with treatment guidelines were counted. Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one of these adverse events as defined during the time of observation., From time of first dose of study treatment through 30 days after last dose of treatment, up to 3 years
This is a single-arm, multi-cohort, open-label, phase II trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of datopotamab deruxtecan for the treatment of CNS metastases in patients with HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer.

Participants will be enrolled in three different groups: Cohort A for estrogen receptor (ER)-positive HER2-negative breast cancer, Cohort B for metastatic triple negative breast cancer, and Cohort C for HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer which has spread to the leptomeninges (which surround the brain or spinal cord).

Datopotamab deruxtecan is a new type of anti-cancer drug called an "antibody drug conjugate" (ADC) that targets cancer cells expressing a specific molecule on the tumor cell membrane.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved datopotamab deruxtecan as a treatment for metastatic, Human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2) negative breast cancer.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, blood tests, questionnaires, and study treatment visits, Computerized Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, electrocardiograms, echocardiograms, and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) collection.

It is expected that about 58 people will take part in this research study.

Daiichi Sankyo Inc. is funding this study and providing the study drug, datopotamab deruxtecan.