Feasibility Study of Dynasplint to Prevent Trismus in Head and Neck Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see if use of a device called the Jaw Dynasplint速 System can be used during and immediately after cancer treatment. The Dynasplint速 is a stretching device that is used to treat joint stiffness and limited range of motion in the jaw. The device is currently approved for treatment of trismus once it has developed. This study will investigate the use of the device during and immediately after cancer treatment to prevent trismus.
Trismus|Head and Neck Cancer
DEVICE: Jaw Dynasplint System
Feasibility of use of a Dynasplint during chemoradiation for head and neck cancer patients, Feasibility will be measured based on patient compliance, adverse events, and barriers to use of the Jaw Dynasplint速 System., 2 years
Preliminary Efficacy Data on Prevention of Trismus, Interincisoral distance (IID) will be the primary measure of efficacy. Any patient who develops IID of 30 mm or less will be considered to have clinically significant trismus. The incidence of trismus will be compared between the intervention arm (Arm 1) and the standard of care arm (Arm 2)., 2 years
Symptom Burden of Patients with Trismus, Patient reported outcome data will be collected via questionnaires including, the Vanderbilt Head and Neck Symptom Survey plus General Symptom Survey version 2.0 (VHNSS v2.0 plus GSS), and the Mandibular Function Impairment Questionnaire (MFIQ). This patient reported outcome data will be collected in order to identify correlations between trismus and symptom burden., 2 years
Data suggest that early intervention with mechanical stretching devices for head and neck cancer patients undergoing curative therapy maximizes their effectiveness in the treatment of trismus. That being said, treatment for trismus typically begins after head and neck cancer patients are found to have moderate to severe reduction in jaw range of motion. Typically, clinicians will begin therapy when the IID is 3.0 cm or less. A subset of head and neck cancer patients will develop severe or rapidly progressive trismus that will fail to respond to treatment. In this cohort, trismus may lead to permanent, severe morbidity. It may be hypothesized that preventative strategies that encourage routine stretching during and immediately after the completion of cancer therapy may prevent or minimize trismus. No studies have examined the prophylactic use of the Jaw Dynasplint速 System during cancer treatment.

Furthermore, it is not known whether patients can tolerate wearing a mechanical stretching device during treatment. The investigators would like to test the hypothesis that: 1) preventive use of a mechanical stretching device during cancer treatment and early recovery is feasible, and 2) preventive use of a mechanical stretching device will result in a marked decrease in the incidence and severity of trismus in patients undergoing primary or adjuvant radiation therapy for head and neck cancer.