Comparison of Treatment Effect of Chemotherapy With Panitumumab to Chemotherapy Alone
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the treatment effect of panitumumab plus FOLFIRI compared to FOLFIRI alone as second line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Panitumumab|DRUG: FOLFIRI
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to first disease progression per modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria or death, based on independent central radiological assessment. Participants who were alive but did not meet criteria for progression by the data cutoff date were censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date.

Progressive disease is defined as a ≥ 20% increase in the size of target lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or any new lesions., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 8 April 2008. Maximum follow-up time was 17 months.|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from randomization to the date of death. Participants who had not died by the analysis data cutoff date had their time of death censored at their last contact date., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 30 April 2009. Maximum follow-up time was 33 months
Percentage of Participants With an Objective Response, Participants were evaluated for tumor response per the modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria every 8 weeks until disease progression. Objective response was defined as the incidence of either a confirmed complete or partial response (CR or PR) while on study, as determined by blinded independent central review and confirmed no less than 4-weeks after the criteria for response are first met. CR: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and no progression of non-target or no new lesions, or, disappearance of all target lesions and the persistence of ≥ 1 non-target lesion not qualifying for either CR or progressive disease. Participants without a post-baseline assessment were considered non-responders., Every 8 weeks until disease progression up to the data cut-off date of 30 April 2009. Maximum time on follow-up was 33 months.|Time to Disease Progression, Time to progression was defined as the time from the randomization date to the date of first observed disease progression per the modified RECIST criteria. Participants not meeting these criteria by the analysis data cutoff date were censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date.

Progressive disease is defined as a ≥ 20% increase in the size of target lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or any new lesions., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 30 April 2009. Maximum follow-up time was 33 months|Duration of Response, Calculated only for those participants with an objective response as the time from the first objective response (subsequently confirmed within no less than 4 weeks) to first observed disease progression per modified-RECIST criteria. Participants not meeting these criteria by the analysis data cutoff date were censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date.

Progressive disease is defined as a ≥ 20% increase in the size of target lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or any new lesions., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 30 April 2009. Maximum follow-up time was 33 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), A serious adverse event (SAE) is defined by regulatory authorities as one that • is fatal • is life threatening (places the subject at immediate risk of death) • requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization • results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity • is a congenital anomaly/birth defect • other significant medical hazard. The relationship of the adverse event to the study treatment was assessed by the Investigator by means of the question: "Is there a reasonable possibility that the event may have been caused by the study treatment?", From randomization until the data cut-off date of 30 April 2009. Maximum follow-up time was 33 months.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the treatment effect of panitumumab plus FOLFIRI compared to FOLFIRI alone as second line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer.