Accuracy and Safety of Coplanar Template Assistance for Head and Neck Biopsies.
This is a prospective single-arm cohort study to evaluate the accuracy and safety of three-dimensional printing co-planer template(3D-PCT) for computed tomography (CT)-guided neck and head biopsy .
Head and Neck Neoplasms
Accuracy, Depth and Angle difference between actual puncture and planned puncture pathway., During the operation.
Complication rate, Adverse event include needle track implantation metastasis and operation-related complications (e.g. bleeding, nerve injury, air embolism)., During the first month after operation.|Pathological Diagnosis, The pathological diagnosis of head and neck biopsy., During the first month after operation.
Procedural duration, The length of procedural duration was measured from the time a patient lain on the examining bed of the CT scanner to the time the first CT scan post biopsy., During the operation.|Radiation exposure, Numbers of CT scan., During the operation.
Tumors in head and neck region refer to those located above the clavicle, the upper boundary is the skull base, the posterior boundary is cervical vertebra, excluding brain spinal cord and other central nervous system and Intraocular tumor. Include oral cavity (lips, tongue, hard palate, floor of mouth, gums), oropharynx (middle of throat behind mouth, including tongue base, tonsils, and soft palate), larynx, hypopharynx (lower throat), paranasal sinuses, nasopharynx, salivary glands (Parotid, submandibular and minor salivary glands), thyroid, skin cancers and metastatic cancers of the head and neck. Tissue sampling of lesions in the head and neck is limited due to the complex regional anatomy, including nerves, vessels, and salivary glands. Computed tomography (CT)-guided percutaneous puncture biopsy is a well-recognized technique that can facilitate histopathological diagnosis and therapeutic planning of head and neck masses, and may be particularly useful when lesions are not accessible via an endoscope or by palpation-guided sampling. CT image-guided free-hand puncture biopsy is widely used in clinical practice. However, multiple CT scan and adjustment of position of the biopsy needle increased radiation exposure and the probability of other adverse events, such as bleeding and nerve injury. Therefore, we need a more efficient approach to guidance which is precisely positioned and safe to operate.

In recent years, we have taken advantage of three-dimensional(3D) printing template to improve the accuracy and safety of puncture related operations, which simplifies the procedure and shortens the procedure duration\[3-4\]. 3D printing template include co-planar and non co-planar\[5\]. However, few prospective studies have focused on three-dimensional printing co-planer template(3D-PCT) for CT-guided neck and head biopsy. The purposes of this prospective, single-arm study are to determine the accuracy and safety of CT guided percutaneous head and neck biopsy assisted by 3D-PCT.

1. Tu A S, Geyer C A, Mancall A C, et al. The buccal space: A doorway for percutaneous CT-guided biopsy of the parapharyngeal region. Am J Neuroradiol, 1998.19（4）：728- 731.
2. Esposito M B, Arrington J A, Murtagh F R, et al. Anterior approach for CT-guided biopsy of skull base and parapharyngeal space lesions. J Comput Assist Tomogr, 1996. 20 (5)：739-741.
3. Ji Z, Jiang Y ,Guo F, et al. Dosimetry verification of radioactive seed implantation for malignant tumor assisted by 3D printing individual templates and CT guidance. Applied Radiation and lsotopes 2017; 124: 68-74.
4. Jiang Y, Ji Z , Guo F, et al. Side effects of CT-guided implantation of 125I seeds for recurrent malignant tumors of the head and neck assisted by 3D printing non co-planar template\[J\]. Radiation Oncology, 2018, 13(1):18.
5. W J, Chai S, Wang R, et al. Expert consensus on computed tomography-assisted three-dimensional-printed coplanar template guidance for interstitial permanent radioactive (125) I seed implantation therapy. J Cancer Res Ther 2019; 15: 1430-1434.