Sentinel Node Localization and Staging with Low Dose Superparamagnetic Iron Oxide
Sentinel lymph node (SLN) status is pivotal for treatment decisions in breast cancer patients. The dual technique with Technetium99m (Tc99) and blue dye (BD) is yet the current routine for SLN detection. However, the same reliability has been presented by superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIO). The aim of this study was to determine if SLN detection using ultra-low dose SPIO is feasible.
Breast Cancer|Sentinel Lymph Node
DRUG: Superparamagnetic Iron Oxide
Sentinel lymph node detection rate compared to Tc99m and blue dye, To evaluate the use of superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) as a tracer in a minimal lower dose (0.1-0.5 ml) for sentinel lymph node detection in breast cancer., During the procedure
MRI artefacts in breast, To evaluate if SPIO in a low dose creates any SPIO related breast MRI artefacts (assessed by breast MRI), reported as percentage of patients with artefacts present., 6 and 12 months after surgery|SPIO related skin staining, To evaluate if SPIO in a low dose creates any SPIO related skin staining (assessed by photo), reported as percentage of patients with artefacts present., 6 and 12 months after surgery
Sentinel lymph node (SLN) status is pivotal for treatment decisions in breast cancer patients. The dual technique with Technetium99m (Tc99) and blue dye (BD) is yet the current routine for SLN detection. However, the same reliability has been presented by superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIO). The aim of this study was to determine if SLN detection using ultra-low dose SPIO is feasible.

This is a phase Ib/II interventional dose-escalation single arm study. There will be a dose escalation of SPIO (0.1ml, 0.25ml and 0.5 ml) with a minimum of 5 patients per step. If 4 or more procedures are successful, no further dose escalation will be performed. 30 patients will be included with the minimal successful dose.

Furthermore, a total of 20 patients with the minimal successful dose will be included for the secondary objective A - to evaluate if it is possible to map and stage sentinel lymph nodes with SPIO-enhanced axillary MRI. For the secondary objective B - an additional of 20 patients with the minimal successful dose will be included to evaluate if SPIO in a low dose creates any SPIO related artifacts on breast MRI after breast conserving surgery. These two parts of the study are optional, and the patients will be asked specifically about participation in these two objectives, A and B. All included patients will be evaluated for skin staining at study visits.