Albumin-bound Paclitaxel Plus Camrelizumab for Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma.
In this open, single center, one- armed clinical study, enrolled patients will receive the following treatment: 300 mg/m2 of nab-paclitaxel (Hengrui Pharmaceutical, Lianyungang, China) and 200 mg of PD-1 inhibitor (camrelizumab; Hengrui Pharmaceutical, Lianyungang, China) via a 30-min intravenous infusion on day 1. The treatment was repeated every three weeks until progressive disease occurrence or unacceptable adverse events.

The primary end point was progression-free survival at 4 months. Secondary objectives were objective response rate and safety.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel|DRUG: Camrelizumab
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival is defined as time from enrollment to the first occurrence of progression of disease or death from any cause within 63 days of last response assessment., Up to approximately 24months
Objective response rate, Defined as the proportion of patients who achieve partial response or complete response according to RECIST 1.1., Up to approximately 24months
There is increasing evidence that combination therapy with nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel (nab-paclitaxel) and programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) inhibitor is safe and efficacious in treating many types of malignant tumors. However, clinical data demonstrating the effect of this treatment combination for patients with metastatic soft tissue sarcoma are currently limited.

In this open, single center, one- armed clinical study, enrolled patients will receive the following treatment: 300 mg/m2 of nab-paclitaxel (Hengrui Pharmaceutical, Lianyungang, China) and 200 mg of PD-1 inhibitor (camrelizumab; Hengrui Pharmaceutical, Lianyungang, China) via a 30-min intravenous infusion on day 1. The treatment was repeated every three weeks until progressive disease occurrence or unacceptable adverse events.

The primary end point was progression-free survival at 4 months. Secondary objectives were objective response rate and safety.