Feasibility of Neo-adjuvant Versus Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
The aim of this study is to explore feasibility of Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma (UTUC) treatments based in real world data in various European countries. The study will allow to gain insight in the true proportion of patients that fit to receive complete cisplatin-based neo-adjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy, and the proportion and clinical outcome of patients with poor prognostic factors (PS and renal function) who receive only standard treatment (Radical nephroureterectomy (RNU)). This comparison will be made using a uniform diagnostic and treatment protocol.
Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: RNU|DRUG: Gemcitabine/Cisplatin|DRUG: M-VAC Protocol
Proportion of UTUC patients randomized to neo- or adjuvant chemotherapy that is actually able to start and finalize three courses of planned chemotherapy, Percentage of patients randomised to adjuvant or neo-adjuvant treatment, 6 months
Disease Free Survival (DFS), time from randomisation to local recurrence or distant metastasis, 1-2 years|Overall Survival (OS), time from randomisation to death for any cause different from urothelial carcinoma, 1-2 years|Cancer-Specific Survival (CSS), time from randomisation to death from urothelial carcinoma, 1-2 years
There are no definitive treatment recommendations for patients diagnosed with UTUC. Radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) has been considered the gold standard treatment for UTUC. However due to the high recurrence rates reported, patients are often offered perioperative chemotherapy provided that they have a good renal function and performance status. With regard to the choice of chemotherapy treatment, there are also no clear recommendations since there are no data from randomized studies. If perioperative chemotherapy is considered in daily practice, gemcitabine/cisplatin regimen is often chosen and occasionally dd-MVAC.

The aim of this study is to explore feasibility of UTUC treatments based in real world data in various European countries. Patients who fulfil good prognostic factors (inclusion criteria for treatment randomization) will be allocated to neo-adjuvant (Arm B) or adjuvant (Arm C) chemotherapy (receiving 3 cycles of gemcitabine/cisplatin or dose dense Methotrexate, Vinblastine, Adriamycin, and Cisplatin (MVAC). Patients who don't fulfil criteria for treatment randomization will undergo Radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) only (Arm A). Patients will be followed up for 5 years.