Bladder Preservation With Sacituzumab Govitecan + Zimberelimab for Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer
Patients with MIBC N0/N1 unwilling or unfit for cystectomy will receive SG + Zimberelimab for 3 cycles of treatment prior of first radiological and TURB re-evaluation.

Patients with stable disease or downstaging will continue Zimberelimab up to 1 year. The goal of this trial is to demonstate that Sacituzumab Govitecan + Zimberelimab can avoid cistectomy and can prolong or avoid recurrence to metastatic disease in selected patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer.

The primary endpoint of this trial is Event Free Survival that is defined as clinical evidence of new or progressing nodal or any distant metastatic disease, radical cystectomy, or death due to any cause from date of inclusion to the first documentation of a EFS event.
Bladder Cancer|Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Bladder Neoplasm|Muscle-Invasive Bladder Carcinoma
DRUG: Sacituzumab Govitecan + Zimberelimab
Event-Free Survival (EFS), clinical evidence of new or progressing nodal or any distant metastatic disease, radical cystectomy, or death due to any cause from date of inclusion to the first documentation of a EFS event. Patients last known to be EFS event-free are censored at the date of last event-free cystoscopy and/or CT scan. Those patients without disease assessment who are still alive will be censored at date of inclusion in the trial, 24 months
clinical or pathological downstaging, Participants experiencing partial response according to RECIST v1.1 criteria and/or pathological downstaging as from pT2 to non muscle-invasive disease after SG + Zimberelimab treatment, 24 months|Number of Participants treated with Pembrolizumab + Enfortumab Vedotin who experience AEs/SAEs, The incidence of, causality, and outcome of AEs/SAEs. AEs will be assessed as defined by CTCAE, Version \[5.0\], 24 months|predictive role of miRNA in patients who achieve clinical or pathological downstaging after SG + Zimberelimab treatment, miRNA expression in partecipants who achieve clinical or pathological downstaging after SG + Zimberelimab treatment, 24 months|predictive role of ctDNA in patients who achieve clinical or pathological downstaging after SG + Zimberelimab treatment, • ctDNA expression in partecipants who achieve clinical or pathological downstaging after SG + Zimberelimab treatment, 24 months|role of 18FDG-PET in the prediction of response or relapse for N positive patients, Patients experiencing nodal progression or remission after SG + ZIM treatment, 24 months|the role of multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) in the assessment of clinical response, Patients with tumor response identified by MRI, 24 months
This is an open-label, multi-center, single-group, phase 2 study. Patients with MIBC N0/N1 unwilling or unfit for cystectomy will receive SG + Zimberelimab for 3 cycles of treatment prior of first radiological and TURB re-evaluation.

Approximately 63 patients will be enrolled and assigned to study intervention. At screening, a tumor specimen from TURBT or biopsy done as early as 90 days prior to enrollment will be submitted for central pathology review. All participants will undergo baseline screening imaging (CT or MRI of the chest, abdomen, pelvis) for clinical staging.

Eligible participants will be allocated to study intervention which consist in SG + Zimberelimab for 3 cycles followed by Zimberelimab for 13 cycles in patients who achieve CR/PR/SD at tumor evaluation.

The planned total duration of treatment is approximately 1 year, 3 cycles of SG and 16 cycles of Zimberelimab.

Treatment will be discontinued if the participant experiences unacceptable AE(s), intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment, the investigator's decision to withdraw the participant, the participant withdraws consent, pregnancy of the participant, noncompliance with study intervention or procedure requirements, or the maximum number of cycles has been received for each treatment component individually.

Participants will complete 3 cycles of induction study intervention, followed by repeat imaging studies (same modality as screening) within ≤4 weeks (21 days +/- 7 days) after C3D21 to exclude disease progression. mpMRI/contrast-enhanced or CT scan will assess local invasion by T3 disease or higher and the radiological response to treatment.

Participants who remain radiographically free of distant metastases and PR/SD/CR RECIST v1.1 will proceed to TURBT within 6 weeks of the last dose of SG. TURBT will enable histopathological re-staging and will evaluate pathological response to treatment. The inclusion of bladder muscle in the resection specimen is required. Cystoscopy will be performed before TURBT, as indicated in the Schedule of Activities.

Patients with no evidence of disease at the cystoscopy, will undergo bladder mapping in case of positive urine cytology. In case of negative urine cytology, patients will be considered in as complete respose, in case of no evidence of disease at radiological evaluation.

Participants with radiological progression to metastatic disease or locally advanced disease (from cT2 to cT4 or from N0 to N1), as assessed radiographically, at this time will be considered to have met the primary endpoint of EFS (ie, had an "event") and will not receive further therapy on study, but will transition into survival follow-up and will be treated as per clinical practice.

Participants with pathological downstaging and radiological complete or partial response will continue to receive zimberelimab for 13 cycles (16 cycles as a total) to complete approximately 1 year of total therapy.

Non-responder patients who will maintain radiological or pathological stability will choose to undergo RC or RT/CT or to continue Zimberelimab for 1 years. Additional TURBT could be performed in order to achieve local control, according to the centre clinical practice.

Response to study intervention will be assessed through TURBT and CT SCAN and/or MRI. Imaging should continue to be performed until an EFS event occurs or withdrawal of consent, whichever occurs first. If new anticancer therapy is initiated, this should be documented.

All subjects will be followed for OS every 3 months until death, lost to follow-up, or withdrawal of study consent. Additional survival follow-up may continue for up to 3-5 years from the time of this analysis. To evaluate metastasis free survival, subjects will be monitored by radiographic assessment and cystoscopy on an every-12-week schedule (±5 days). RECIST 1.1 criteria will be used for the assessment. Subjects will be evaluated at every SG + Zimberelimab dose administration plus two additional follow-up visits for safety within the first 100 days from the last dose of study therapy. Beyond 100 days from the last dose of study therapy, subjects will be followed for ongoing drug-related adverse events until resolved, return to baseline or deemed irreversible, or until lost to follow-up, or withdrawal of study consent.

To assess local recurrence, cystoscopy will be performed every 12 weeks (+/- 1 7 days). In case of local recurrence, patients could be managed with TURBT as per clinical practice, in case patients will still be unfit for cystectomy or refuse surgery.