Efficacy and Safety of Anlotinib as Maintenance Treatment After First-line Chemotherapy in SCLC
Investigations prospectively collected the SCLC patients who received current standard first-line treatment, the response was not progression disease(PD). and then participants receive Anlotinib 12mg, administered as PO on Day1-14 of each 21-day cycle until documented PD or had unacceptable toxicity. This regimen is compared to the effects a observation without treatment after the first-line therapy. The aim of the study is therefore to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Anlotinib as maintenance treatment after first-line chemotherapy in SCLC patients.
Carcinoma|Lung Neoplasm|Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Anlotinib Hydrochloride
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to documented disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first and was based on blinded independent central radiologists' (BICR) review. Progressive Disease (PD) was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions and an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression). Participants were evaluated every 9 weeks with radiographic imaging to assess their response to treatment., Up to 6 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a Complete Response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 based on BICR evaluation., 24 months
Investigations prospectively collected the SCLC patients who received current standard first-line treatment, the response was not progression disease(PD). and then participants receive Anlotinib 12mg, administered as PO on Day1-14 of each 21-day cycle until documented PD or had unacceptable toxicity. This regimen is compared to the effects a observation without treatment after the first-line therapy. The aim of the study is therefore to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Anlotinib as maintenance treatment after first-line chemotherapy in SCLC patients.