Study of Epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG) for Supportive and Symptomatic Management in Patients With Esophageal Cancer
The main symptom of patients with advanced esophageal cancer is eating obstruction. In clinical practice, patients need to wait for a long time before anti-tumor treatment, which will lead to a rapid decline in the quality of life and nutritional status of patients, and severe patients sometimes need to place nasointestinal feeding tubes or endoscopic stents. EGCG has been shown to have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor effects . The complex effects of EGCG may improve esophageal obstruction during the waiting period before antineoplastic therapy. The purpose of this phase I study was to explore the safety, recommended dose and preliminary efficacy of EGCG solution in the treatment of esophageal obstruction.
Esophageal Obstruction
OTHER: EGCG
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), the toxicities will be reported by describing Adverse Events (AE) per CTCAE v5.0, by dose level, and type and grade of toxicity, baseline and up to 7 days post-treatment|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), the toxicities will be reported by describing Adverse Events (AE) per CTCAE v5.0, by dose level, and type and grade of toxicity, baseline and up to 7 days post-treatment|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), the toxicities will be reported by describing Adverse Events (AE) per CTCAE v5.0, by dose level, and type and grade of toxicity, baseline and up to 7 days post-treatment
Imaging objective response rate, Response rate of esophageal stenosis was determined by X-ray barium meal examination and/or contrast-enhanced CT, Change from Baseline esophageal stenosis size at 7 days|Symptom objective response rate, choking and pain when swallowing was assessed by Stooler's dysphagia score and NRS, baseline and up to 7 days post-treatment|change in blood biochemical indicators, This will be determined by prealbumin and albumin values, baseline and up to 8 days post-treatment
The main symptom of patients with advanced esophageal cancer is eating obstruction. In clinical practice, patients need to wait for a long time before anti-tumor treatment, which will lead to a rapid decline in the quality of life and nutritional status of patients, and severe patients sometimes need to place nasointestinal feeding tubes or endoscopic stents. EGCG has been shown to have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor effects . The complex effects of EGCG may improve esophageal obstruction during the waiting period before antineoplastic therapy. The purpose of this phase I study was to explore the safety, recommended dose and preliminary efficacy of EGCG solution in the treatment of esophageal obstruction.