Online Information and Support for Distance Caregivers
This study seeks to test the effectiveness of two arms of an intervention that use videoconference technology for distance caregivers of patients with advanced cancer. The study is significant because the intervention will promote involvement of caregivers of patients with cancer and makes a compelling case for significance based on changing demographics and lifestyles.
Advanced Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Video-C|BEHAVIORAL: Nurse Coaching|BEHAVIORAL: Web-Only
Change in Anxiety T-scores, Compare the direct effects of Closer, Video-C Only, and Web-Only on anxiety over time, controlling for DCG demographic variables. Anxiety will be measured using the 4-item tool from the Patient Reported Outcomes measurement Information System (PROMIS). Higher scores indicate greater anxiety.

The PROMIS Item Bank v1.0-Emotional Distress-Anxiety - Short Form 4a, a 4 item instrument, is reported as a t-score and can range from 37.1 to 83.1 with higher t-scores representing more anxiety.

The mean and standard deviation are as follows: M=50 (SD=10).

T-scores from 55-60 represent mild anxiety, 61-70 moderate anxiety and \> 70 represent severe anxiety., At enrollment to end of intervention period (4 months)|Change in Distress Scores, Compare the direct effects of Closer, Video-C Only, and Web-Only on distress over time, controlling for DCG demographic variables. Distress is conceptually defined as a negative state in which coping and adaptation processes fail to return the individual to physiological and/or psychological homeostasis. It will be measured using the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) distress thermometer - a clinical tool currently utilized with the cancer population.

The National Comprehensive Cancer Network Distress Thermometer is a one-item, 11-point Likert scale represented on a visual graphic of a thermometer that ranges from 0 (no distress) to 10 (extreme distress), with which patients indicate their level of distress over the course of the week prior to assessment.

Scores range from 0 to 10 with higher scores representing higher levels of distress.

Scores \>4 indicate distress requiring further evaluation., At enrollment to end of intervention period (4 months)|Change in Depression T-scores, Compare the direct effects of Closer, Video-C Only, and Web-Only on depression over time, controlling for DCG demographic variables. Depression will be measured using the 4 item PROMIS Item Bank v1.0 - Emotional Distress-Depression - Short Form 4a.

The PROMIS Item Bank v1.0 - Emotional Distress-Depression - Short Form 4a, a 4 item instrument, is reported as a t-score and can range from 38.2 to 81.3 with higher t-scores representing worse depression.

T-scores from 55-60 represent mild depression, 61-70 moderate depression and \> 70 represent severe depression., At enrollment to end of intervention period (4 months)
The primary goal of this randomized clinical trial is to compare outcomes (anxiety, distress, depression, health status) for distant care givers (DCGs) of patients with advanced cancer who are randomly assigned to either the full intervention arm (Closer), the video-only intervention arm (Video-C Only) or the control group (Web-Only). the goal is to determine which is most efficacious in improving outcomes over time for these caregivers. In addition, this study will examine the indirect effects of each arm of the intervention on DCG outcomes over time as well as explore the nature of relationships between patient and DCG distress, anxiety and depression over time.

The specific research questions include:

1. Is there a difference in DCG outcomes (anxiety, distress, depression, health status) over time between caregivers in the Closer, Video-C Only, and Web-Only groups, controlling for DCG demographic variables?
2. Are there significant indirect effects of Closer, Video-C Only, and Web-Only on DCG outcomes (anxiety, distress, depression, health status) over time, controlling for DCG demographic variables?
3. Are there significant relationships between DCG distress, anxiety, depression and health status and patient distress, anxiety and depression over time?