Efficacy Evaluation and Recurrence Monitoring of Therapy for Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Based on ctDNA-MRD.
This project is focusing on who have locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and have undergone neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy, followed by surgical resection. The exclusive MRD (Minimal residual disease) probe consists of an exclusive "molecular label" formulated according to the individual genome mutation profile and 21 critical tumor driver genes. By continuously monitoring each patient's ctDNA dynamics, changes in ctDNA concentration or ctDNA-MRD negative/positive results will serve as the primary indicators to assess the efficacy and prognosis of patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
Minimal Residual Disease|Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
pathological complete response (pCR), No residual tumor is the esophagus or dissected lymph nodes., immediately after surgery
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), The time from date of diagnosis to the time of recurrence or death., 2 years|Overall survival (OS), The time from date of diagnosis to the time of death., 2 years
The goal of this project is to recruit 50 patients who have locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and have undergone neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy, followed by surgical resection. Initially, tumor tissues from all patients will undergo a more comprehensive NGS sequencing process (WESPlus) than whole-exome sequencing. This will provide a complete genomic mutation profile for each patient. Subsequently, a specific algorithm will be used to accurately select 20 mutation sites as the patient's unique "molecular label." Additionally, 21 critical driver genes related to tumors will be combined, leading to the creation of an exclusive MRD probe. This will enable ultra-high-depth capture sequencing of ctDNA samples from patients at 100,000x. By continuously monitoring each patient's ctDNA dynamics, changes in ctDNA concentration or ctDNA-MRD negative/positive results will serve as the primary indicators to assess the efficacy and prognosis of patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.