Donor Stem Cell Transplant After Busulfan, Fludarabine, Methylprednisolone, and Antithymocyte Globulin in Treating Patients With Bone Marrow Failure Syndrome
RATIONALE: Giving low doses of chemotherapy and antithymocyte globulin before a donor stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of abnormal cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. The donated stem cells may replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining abnormal cells (graft-versus-tumor effect).

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well a donor stem cell transplant works after busulfan, fludarabine, methylprednisolone, and antithymocyte globulin in treating patients with bone marrow failure syndrome.
Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Nonmalignant Neoplasm|Paroxysmal Nocturnal Hemoglobinuria
PROCEDURE: nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation
Donor cell engraftment, neutrophil count over 500/ul, 10-35 days after transplantation
Regimen-related toxicities as assessed by NCI's Common Toxicity Criteria, various toxicities of treatment, 0-60 months after transplantation|Acute and chronic GVHD, ocurrence of acute or chronic GVHD after transplantation, 15-100 days; 100 days to 4 years|overall survival, patients surviving after transplantaion, 0-60 months|event-free survival, patients undergoing transplantation and maintaining donor hematopoiesis, 0-60 months after transplatation
OBJECTIVES:

* To evaluate the efficacy of HLA-haploidentical familial donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation after reduced-intensity conditioning regimen comprising busulfan, fludarabine phosphate, and anti-thymocyte globulin in patients with bone marrow failure syndromes.

OUTLINE:

* Reduced-intensity conditioning regimen: Patients receive busulfan IV daily on days -7 and -6, fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -2, anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) IV over 4 hours on days -4 to -1, and methylprednisolone IV over 30 minutes starting 30 minutes before ATG on days -4 to -1.
* HLA-haploidentical donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: Patients receive donor hematopoietic stem cells via Hickman catheter over 1 hour on days 0 or 1.
* Graft-versus-host-disease prophylaxis (GVHD): Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2-4 hours every 12 hours starting on day -1 (cyclosporine can be given orally once oral medication can be tolerated) and methotrexate IV on days 2, 4 , 7, and 12. In the absence of GVHD, cyclosporine is tapered starting between days 30 to 60.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 1 year.