Vaccination Plus Ontak in Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to determine if an experimental melanoma vaccine can produce an immune response in patients with metastatic melanoma, and if combining this vaccine with the drug Ontak can improve these immune responses. It is also hoped that this will lead to tumor shrinkage.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: 4-peptide melanoma vaccine|DRUG: Ontak
Clinical Response Outcome, Proportion of Patients With a Best Response of Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), or Progressive Disease (PD).

Response was evaluated every 6 weeks based on Response Evaluation In Solid Tumor (RECIST) version 1.1.

Per RECIST v1.1 for target lesions and assessed by MRI and/or CT: Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for a Partial Response nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progression of Disease (PD); PD, 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions; Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions, 6 weeks
This is an open-label, randomized phase II, single institution study comparing administration of a 4-peptide melanoma vaccine alone or post-Ontak, in patients with metastatic melanoma.

Treatment:

1. Cohort A: Vaccine alone. Patients will receive immunization with an emulsion of 4 melanoma peptides (250 mcg each)/GM-CSF/Montanide injected intradermally/subcutaneously on day 1. A second vaccination will be given 2 weeks later and a third vaccination 2 weeks after that. Patients will be re-evaluated around week 6 and can continue courses of 3 vaccinations (one every 2 weeks) until disease progression.
2. Cohort B: Ontak plus vaccine. Patients will receive Ontak (18 mcg/kg) intravenously on day -4 for one dose. On day 0, they will receive the first immunization with an emulsion of 4 melanoma peptides (250 mcg each)/GM-CSF/Montanide injected intradermally/subcutaneously. A second vaccination will be given 2 weeks later and a third vaccination 2 weeks after that. Patients will be re-evaluated around week 6 and can continue courses of 3 vaccinations (one every 2 weeks) until disease progression. However, no further Ontak will be given.

Duration: Patients may remain on study until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, patient choice to withdraw, or physician decision to discontinue therapy (due to intervening illness, poor patient compliance, or other situation that would increase patient risk).