ConnectedNest: a Digital Platform Connecting Individuals With Cancer to Social Care
Social determinants of health (SDoH) such as housing instability, food insecurity, and financial burden largely shape the health and well-being of individuals, create health inequities, and drive a large portion of avoidable adverse health outcomes and healthcare costs. With new advancements in treatment and rising out-of-pocket expenses, individuals facing cancer are especially vulnerable to the adverse effects of SDoH. To address these barriers, a novel solution is needed to support oncology patients, clinical teams, and community-based organizations (CBOs) across the cancer continuum. In a Phase I contract award, XanthosHealth developed ConnectedNest, a novel electronic social care referral platform to screen for SDoH needs and connect individuals with cancer to social and community services provided by CBOs while engaging the oncology team in the SDoH referral process. Through additional funding, a pilot study was completed in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in partnership with Minnesota Cancer Alliance, involving the collaboration of 14 CBOs focused on cancer. 50 cancer survivors from these CBOs were enrolled to utilize the ConnectedNest platform for a 90-day duration. Our study involved the collection and analysis of crucial metrics related to patient and CBO engagement, SDoH needs, and the volume of feasible social care referrals. In Phase II, the technical features and integration capabilities of ConnectedNest will be enhanced based on learnings in Phase I and completed pilot study. The platform will be implemented and tested among patients seen at multiple oncology clinics, evaluating health outcomes of patients who use the platform.
Cancer
OTHER: ConnectedNest|OTHER: Standard of care
Number of self-reported social needs, change in the number of reported social needs from baseline (time of randomization) to day 90 after enrollment using the validated Accountable Health Communities Health-related social needs screening tool., Day 90|Reported social needs that are partially or completely met, change in the number of reported social needs that are partially or completely met from baseline (time of randomization) to day 90 after enrollment using the validated Accountable Health Communities Health-related social needs screening tool., Day 90
Number of connections with needed social and community services with needed social and community services, Change in self-reported levels of distress using the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) distress thermometer from baseline (time of randomization) to day 90 after enrollment, Day 90|Quality of life, Change in self-reported quality of life from baseline (time of randomization) to day 90 after enrollment using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Survey-General, Day 90|Satisfaction with Care, Change in self-reported satisfaction with care from baseline (time of randomization) to day 90 after enrollment using the Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire, Day 90
Social determinants of health (SDoH) such as housing instability, food insecurity, and financial burden largely shape the health and well-being of individuals, create health inequities, and drive a large portion of avoidable adverse health outcomes and healthcare costs. With new advancements in treatment and rising out-of-pocket expenses, individuals facing cancer are especially vulnerable to the adverse effects of SDoH. To address these barriers, a novel solution is needed to support oncology patients, clinical teams, and community-based organizations (CBOs) across the cancer continuum. In a Phase I contract award, XanthosHealth developed ConnectedNest, a novel electronic social care referral platform to screen for SDoH needs and connect individuals with cancer to social and community services provided by CBOs while engaging the oncology team in the SDoH referral process. Through additional funding, a pilot study was completed in Minneapolis, Minnesota, in partnership with Minnesota Cancer Alliance, involving the collaboration of 14 CBOs focused on cancer. 50 cancer survivors from these CBOs were enrolled to utilize the ConnectedNest platform for a 90-day duration. Our study involved the collection and analysis of crucial metrics related to patient and CBO engagement, SDoH needs, and the volume of feasible social care referrals. In Phase II, the technical features and integration capabilities of ConnectedNest will be enhanced based on learnings in Phase I and completed pilot study. The platform will be implemented and tested among patients seen at multiple oncology clinics, evaluating health outcomes of patients who use the platform.