Investigation of Tipifarnib in Treatment of Subjects With Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma (PTCL) That Have Not Responded to Standard Therapy
Phase II study designed to investigate antitumor activity in terms of objective response rate (ORR) of tipifarnib subjects with advanced Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma (PTCL). Tipifarnib will be administered orally until disease progression.
Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Tipifarnib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR (complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PRs\]) of tipifarnib was based on response assessments according to the Lugano Classification. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were based on either Wilson approximation (N \> 4) or Clopper-Pearson method (N ≤ 4).

CR: PET-CT-based response, score of 1-3 on five-point scale (5PS) for lymph nodes and extralymphatic sites, no evidence of fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-avid disease in marrow. CT-based response, target nodes and masses regress to 1.5 cm in longest transverse diameter, no extralymphatic sites of disease, normal bone marrow morphology.

PR: PET-CT-based response, score of 4-5 on 5PS with reduced uptake compared to baseline for lymph nodes and extralymphatic sites, residual uptake reduced compared to baseline in the bone marrow. CT-based response, ≥ 50% decrease in sum of the product of perpendicular diameters of up to 6 target measurable nodes and extranodal sites, spleen regressed by \> 50% in length beyond normal., Up to approximately 3 years
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time (in months) from first dose (Cycle 1 Day 1) to either first observation of progressive disease (PD) or occurrence of death due to any cause within 126 days (approximately 2 time-intervals for tumor assessments) of either first administration of tipifarnib or the last tumor assessment. Observation of PD could have been by either documented radiographic progression (i.e., scan results) or documentation of symptomatic or clinical progression agreed upon and documented by investigators. In subjects without a progression date or with a death date more than 126 days after the first administration of study drugs or the last tumor assessment, the PFS time was censored on the date of last tumor assessment or date of first administration of study tipifarnib. The duration of the PFS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method. 95% CIs were calculated using Hall-Wellner Method., Up to approximately 3 years|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time (in months) from the start date of the objective response to the first date of either documented PD or death. No data imputations were conducted for missing data. In the event of a maintained response, the DOR was censored at the last evaluable non-PD assessment. The DOR was analyzed using the KM method. 95% CIs were calculated using Hall-Wellner Method., Up to approximately 3 years|Number of Subjects That Experienced One or More Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a subject or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product, which did not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. TEAEs were defined as AEs that started on or after the first dose of study drug and within 30 days of the last administration of study drug or immediately before the initiation of any other anticancer therapy. The Investigator was required to grade the severity/intensity of each AE according to NCI-CTCAE version 4.03. If a severity/intensity of Grade 4 (life-threatening) or 5 (death) was applied to an AE, then the Investigator also reported the event as a serious AE., Up to approximately 3 years
This Phase II study will investigate the antitumor activity in terms of ORR of tipifarnib in subjects with relapsed or refractory PTCL. The first 18 subjects may be of the following PTCL sub-types: PTCL not otherwise specified (PTCL-NOS), angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL), ALK-positive and negative anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL), hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma, enteropathy-associate T-cell lymphoma (EATL), extranodal natural killer (NK) T-cell lymphoma, nasal type and subcutaneous panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma. The AITL expansion cohort (N=32) will enroll only subjects with AITL. An additional cohort of patients (N=12) expressing the wild type CXCL12 3' UTR will be enrolled in order to explore the benefits of tipifarnib treatment observed in patients having an absence of this gene variation or single nucleotide variation (SNV).

Tumor response assessments will be conducted according to Lugano Classification and/or mSWAT criteria.

Tumor assessments will be performed approximately every 8 weeks (cycles 2-6) and at least once approximately every 12 weeks thereafter (Cycles 9, 12, 15, etc.), and will continue until disease progression. Subjects experiencing a complete response may be considered for bone marrow transplantation. Upon disease progression, all subjects will be followed for survival and the use of subsequent therapy. All subjects will be followed for safety during treatment and up to approximately 30 days after treatment discontinuation or until before the initiation of another anti-cancer therapy. Additional follow up may be implemented until the subject recovers from any emergent treatment related toxicity or the adverse event is considered irreversible by the investigator.