FOcal RECurrent Assessment and Salvage Treatment
Radiotherapy is the commonest form of prostate cancer treatment in the UK. In one in four men, radiotherapy will fail to control the cancer. These men are offered hormonal treatment which has significant side effects. Few men are offered a further treatment such as surgery, HIFU or cryotherapy. Only half of these men are cancer free at 5 years. The investigators believe this is due to poor imaging tests such as CT and Bone scan that cannot accurately detect whether cancer has come back inside or outside of the prostate or both. Also radiotherapy damages tissue surrounding the prostate which affects tissue healing for example after surgery. Treating just the cancer in the prostate only (focal treatment) rather than the whole prostate may limit this damage and cause fewer side-effects. The investigators want to see if new imaging tests can better identify cancer that has spread outside of the prostate and areas of cancer inside the prostate. Our new tests are whole-body MRI (for distant disease) and MRI guided biopsies (MRI-TB) (for local disease). First, the investigators will compare the results of whole-body MRI to existing imaging tests (bone-scan, and choline PET/CT) that try to find distant spread. Second, the investigators will compare the results of MRI-TB to a very detailed and accurate biopsy of the prostate called template prostate mapping which will show us where and how aggressive the cancer is. Third, if the cancer is confined to the prostate, the investigators will treat men using focal salvage therapies HIFU and cryotherapy. The investigators believe that these new imaging tests could better identify those who will benefit from early hormone treatment and those who will benefit from local salvage treatment. Our study may help justify carrying out a larger trial looking at how good the treatment is in controlling cancer in the medium and long-term.
Progression of Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: Whole Body MRI|PROCEDURE: Focal Salvage Therapy|PROCEDURE: MRI Targeted biopsies
Accuracy of whole body MRI in identifying distant disease, Whole body MRI lesions suspicious of lymph node, visceral or bone metastases compared to standard care tests

- Sensitivity, specificity, negative and positive predictive values of whole-body MRI to detect distant disease compared to standard care tests (isotope bone-scan, PET/CT-scan, with skeletal survey where appropriate) and/or pelvic lymphadenectomy and/or biopsy of distant areas in indeterminate cases, 2 years
Can multiparametric MRI accurately detect localised recurrent prostate cancer, Imaging of Local Disease

Transperineal multi-parametric MRI targeted biopsies compared to Template Prostate Mapping biopsies in the detection of UCL definition 2 clinically significant prostate cancer (Gleason \>/=3+4 AND/OR Maximum Cancer Core Length \>/=4mm in any one biopsy), 2 years
To determine urinary incontinence rates after focal salvage therapy to localised recurrent prostate cancer?, Treatment

Continence Presence of urinary incontinence (any pad usage) as determined by the UCLA-EPIC urinary continence questionnaire, at 12 months, in those men with no urinary incontinence at baseline, 2 years
Radiotherapy is the commonest form of prostate cancer treatment in the UK. In one in four men, radiotherapy will fail to control the cancer. These men are offered hormonal treatment which has significant side effects. Few men are offered a further treatment such as surgery, HIFU or cryotherapy. Only half of these men are cancer free at 5 years. The investigators believe this is due to poor imaging tests such as CT and Bone scan that cannot accurately detect whether cancer has come back inside or outside of the prostate or both. Also radiotherapy damages tissue surrounding the prostate which affects tissue healing for example after surgery. Treating just the cancer in the prostate only (focal treatment) rather than the whole prostate may limit this damage and cause fewer side-effects. The investigators want to see if new imaging tests can better identify cancer that has spread outside of the prostate and areas of cancer inside the prostate. Our new tests are whole-body MRI (for distant disease) and MRI guided biopsies (MRI-TB) (for local disease). First, the investigators will compare the results of whole-body MRI to existing imaging tests (bone-scan, and choline PET/CT) that try to find distant spread. Second, the investigators will compare the results of MRI-TB to a very detailed and accurate biopsy of the prostate called template prostate mapping which will show us where and how aggressive the cancer is. Third, if the cancer is confined to the prostate, the investigators will treat men using focal salvage therapies HIFU and cryotherapy. The investigators believe that these new imaging tests could better identify those who will benefit from early hormone treatment and those who will benefit from local salvage treatment. Our study may help justify carrying out a larger trial looking at how good the treatment is in controlling cancer in the medium and long-term.