Alisertib in Chemotherapy-pretreated Urothelial Cancer
Background:

Progress in developing new effective therapies in advanced and relapsing urothelial cancer has been stagnant in the last few decades and a paradigm shift is desperately needed. Aurora kinase-A overexpression has been previously described in bladder cancer and spindle checkpoint dysregulation is a common feature of human urothelial carcinoma (UC).

Alisertib (Millennium Inc.) is an orally available, selective small molecule inhibitor of Aurora A kinase. Single agent and combination treatment of MLN8237 with either paclitaxel (TXL) or gemcitabine synergistically reduced UC cell viability compared with either drug alone. Hence, sequential application of MLN8237 and TXL warrants clinical investigation. Phase 1 trials of both single agent and the combination with TXL defined the recommended doses for phase 2 trials.

Methods:

A multistep approach will be adopted for this Phase 2 trial. A single-group run-in phase will be conducted first with Alisertib 50 mg orally BID for 7 days, followed by 14d rest until disease progression. In case of activity, a confirmatory randomized (1:1) trial of weekly TXL plus either Alisertib or Placebo will follow, incorporating efficacy and futility boundaries for early stopping. In a single-blind design, TXL will be given on days 1,8,15 q4wks at the dose of 60 mg/m2 with alisertib and 80 mg/m2 with placebo. Alisertib dose will be 40 mg BID days 1-3, 8-10 and 15-17, q4wks.

In the single-arm phase, primary endpoint (EP) will be Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 response-rate. 20 pts will be accrued, ≥3 responses will be required (10% type I and 20% type II error constraints). An accrual of 110 pts is foreseen in the randomized phase. Primary EP: progression-free survival (PFS), assuming an improvement in PFS from a median of 2.5 months (H0) to a median of 4.5 months (H1) (44% hazard rate reduction, 10% drop out rate).

Eligibility will include diagnosis of metastatic UC and failure of 1-2 CT regimens (single-arm) or 1 prior CT only (randomized phase). A relapse within 6 months of a peri-operative CT will be counted as 1 line. Computed tomography and PET will be done every 2 cycles (2 months). Additional pharmacodynamic and translational analyses are planned on pre- post- blood and tissue samples.
Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Alisertib|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Placebo
Response rate, Single-arm pilot phase:

In this phase we will accrue 20 patients, that will be assessed for overall response to treatment (as per RECIST v1.1) as the primary study end point., 2 months|Progression-free survival, Randomized Phase:

Progression free survival will be the primary endpoint. It is foreseen in this phase an accrual of 110 patients, equally balanced in the two arms, in about 36 months and an overall study duration of 40 months, over which we expect to observe 101 disease progressions or deaths. This is the number of events necessary to yield 90% power of a one sided logrank test at the 5% significance level in case of an improvement in PFS from a median of 2.5 months (H0) to a median of 4.5 months (H1), corresponding to a 44% hazard rate reduction in the experimental arm compared to control., 2 months
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Alisertib in a population of chemotherapy pretreated patients with UC., Incidence and nature of adverse events graded according to the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) version 4.03., 2 months
Translational outcomes, Correlation with tissue and circulating biomarkers with the clinical outcome., 2 months
Phase 2 trial. A single-group run-in phase will be conducted first with Alisertib 50 mg orally BID for 7 days, followed by 14d rest until disease progression.