Combination Targeted Radiotherapy in Neuroendocrine Tumors
The primary aim of this project is to determine, what fraction of individuals with neuroendocrine tumors would show substantially improved tumor dosimetry with combined agent therapy compared to "best" single agent therapy and determine the magnitude of the potential tumor radiation dose increase.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
OTHER: 131-I MIBG and 111-In pentetreotide|OTHER: 131-I MIBG and In-111 DOTATATE
Dosimetry Results, Determine the patient specific bone marrow, kidney and tumor dosimetry results for each subject from the 2 groups will be used to calculate the optimal combination of administered activities for 131I-MIBG plus 90Y-DOTATOC (group 1) 131I-MIBG plus 177Lu-DOTATATE (group 2) and the resultant dose delivery to tumor from each combination, 1 week after scan
Maximum Radiation Dose, Calculate the optimal amount for either agent when administered individually along with corresponding tumor radiation dose to determine the amount of each product will give maximum tumor kill and not damage other vunerable organs.., 3 months
RESEARCH PLAN / BACKGROUND AND SIGNIFICANCE:

Tumors originating from the neuroendocrine system, although relatively rare, may be life threatening. In cases where the disease has metastasized, the 5 year survival is very poor. 131I meta-iodobenzylguanidine (MIBG)and 90Y DOTA-D-Phe1-Tyr3-Octreotide (DOTATOC) are two radiopharmaceuticals that have shown promise as therapeutic agents in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors. However, delivering sufficient radiation dose to the tumor to obtain objective anti-tumor responses or cure with these radiopharmaceuticals is challenging because of the allowable dose limits imposed by radiation damage to normal tissues. Organ biodistribution and kinetics of 90Y DOTATOC and 131I MIBG are substantially different, which leads to different critical organs for these agents, the kidney for Y90Y DOTATOC and the red marrow for 131I MIBG. We propose to investigate a mechanism to increase the radiation dose delivered to tumors without exceeding "critical" radiation dose to normal organs by combining 90Y DOTATOC and 131I MIBG.

AIMS / OBJECTIVES:

The primary aim of this project is to determine, what fraction of individuals with neuroendocrine tumors would show substantially improved tumor dosimetry with combined agent therapy compared to "best" single agent therapy and determine the magnitude of the potential tumor radiation dose increase.

METHODS:

To achieve this, we plan to perform serial scintigraphic imaging procedures to measure patient specific bone marrow, kidney, and tumor biodistribution and kinetics for 111In Pentetreotide and 131I-MIBG in adults and children with neuroendocrine tumors. Then, using the program we have already developed, we will input the individual dosimetry measures for bone marrow, kidney and tumor to determine the optimal amounts of administered radioactivity for the combination of 131I MIBG plus 90Y DOTATOC or 131I MIBG alone.