A Retrospective Pharmacokinetics and Pharmacogenomics Research of Imatinib in Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor Treatment
For patients of GIST (Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor), Imatinib has been widely used in GIST with KIT or PDGFRA sensitive mutations. From clinical points of view, individual differences often occur between different patients, leading diverse effect in ADR and drug effect. Meanwhile, the drug effect and adverse drug reaction was significantly influenced by the pharmacokinetic factors and pharmacodynamic and other factors. In this research, we try to establish a more sensitive method to detect sensitive mutations in plasma and discover the correlation between somatic and germline mutations, plasma trough concentration and drug effect, the association between ADME-associated SNP, Target/Receptor/Pathway-associated SNP, trough concentration and TKI adverse effect. Furthermore, in vivo and in vitro research is also crucial for rational explanation for these clinical phenomenon.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors|Germline Mutation|Somatic Mutation|Plasma Concentration
Progression free survival, Excluding clinical deterioration without evidence of objective progression according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), or death from any cause., The time from the date of randomisation (baseline) to the date of objective tumour progression，and expected average of 36 months.
Number of patients with objective response and adverse events, Objective responses (complete response plus partial response) and disease control (objective response plus stable disease≥6 weeks) were established according to RECIST.And adverse events was established according to CTCAE., one month, three month, 12 month
The plasma concentration of Imatinib were established. The ADME-associated SNPs included are CYP3A4, CYP3A4, CYP1A1, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, ABCB1, ABCG2, ABCC4, SLC22A1, SLCO1B3 and so on. The Target/Receptor/Pathway-associated SNP s included KIT, PDGFRA, PDGFRB, FLT1, FLT3, MAPK1, SHC1, CCL5, CXCL14 and so on. The somatic mutations included are KIT, PDGFRA, BRAF and so on.