A Phase I Study to Assess the Safety, Pharmacokinetics, and Potential Effects of Amrubicin on the QT/QTc Interval in Cancer Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors.
The purpose of the study is to determine whether amrubicin is safe and effective in the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors. The study will assess the pharmacokinetics of the amrubicin and if it has an effect on the heart.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: Amrubicin
To characterize the pharmacokinetics of amrubicin and amrubicinol (metabolite) in plasma, whole blood, and urine in patients given amrubicin as 5 minute IV infusions at 40 mg/m2 for 3 consecutive days; data will be obtained from blood & urine samples, The duration of making measurements during the first cycle is 21 days. All data relating to the primary outcome measure is collected during this time.

There is an optional Extension Phase during which subjects can continue to receive additional 21-day cycles of amrubicin unless there is evidence of tumor progression or unacceptable toxicity. The duration of measurements depends on how long the subject continues on treatment., Cycle 1: all primary outcome measures are collected during the first 21 days.|To evaluate the potential effects on the QT/QTc interval in cancer patients when treated with 5 minute IV infusions of amrubicin 40 mg/m2 daily for 3 consecutive days; data will be obtained by ECG extraction from continuous 12-lead Holter monitoring, The duration of making measurements during the first cycle is 21 days. All data relating to the primary outcome measure is collected during this time.

There is an optional Extension Phase during which subjects can continue to receive additional 21-day cycles of amrubicin unless there is evidence of tumor progression or unacceptable toxicity. The duration of measurements depends on how long the subject continues on treatment., Cycle 1: all primary outcome measures are collected during the first 21 days.|To determine the safety and tolerability of 40 mg/m2 amrubicin given as 5 minute IV infusions for 3 consecutive days; information will be collected by adverse event monitoring and laboratory safety tests., The duration of making measurements during the first cycle is 21 days. All data relating to the primary outcome measure is collected during this time.

There is an optional Extension Phase during which subjects can continue to receive additional 21-day cycles of amrubicin unless there is evidence of tumor progression or unacceptable toxicity. The duration of measurements depends on how long the subject continues on treatment., Cycle 1: all primary outcome measures are collected during the first 21 days.
1. Explore the relationship between pharmacokinetics and QTc interval change. Information will be obtained by further analysis of the datasets obtained from the primary outcome measures, The duration of making measurements during the first cycle is 21 days. All data relating to the primary outcome measure is collected during this time.

There is an optional Extension Phase during which subjects can continue to receive additional 21-day cycles of amrubicin unless there is evidence of tumor progression or unacceptable toxicity. The duration of measurements depends on how long the subject continues on treatment., Cycle 1: all primary outcome measures are collected during the first 21 days.
The purpose of the study is to determine whether amrubicin is safe and effective in the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors. The study will assess the pharmacokinetics of the amrubicin and if it has an effect on the heart.