Study of ASN003 in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
The study is divided into two parts. The first part of the study will test various doses of ASN003 to find out the highest safe dose to test in three specific groups.

The second part of the study will test how well ASN003 can control cancer. Subjects will be enrolled into one of three groups.

Group 1: metastatic or recurrent melanoma with documented BRAFV600 mutation (n=20 evaluable patients) Group 2: metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC), or advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with documented BRAFV600 mutation (n=14 evaluable patients) Group 3: advanced solid tumors with documented PI3K pathway alterations (PIK3CA mutation or PTEN loss) (n=14 evaluable patients)
Neoplasms|Melanoma|Colorectal Neoplasm|Carcinoma, Non-small Cell Lung
DRUG: ASN003 ascending doses|DRUG: ASN003 MTD
Part A: Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ASN003, The MTD will be determined by evaluating the number of subjects with treatment related dose limiting toxicity. This is the primary endpoint of Part A, First 21 days|Part B: evaluates the preliminary efficacy of ASN003 in subjects with selected BRAF and PI3 kinase mutated cancers, Evaluation of the overall disease status using the RECIST 1.1 terms of complete response, partial response, stable disease, and progressive disease. This is the primary endpoint for Part B, Up to 1 year
Calculate the Pharmacokinetic Area Under the Curve, A plot of the concentration of ASN003 in blood plasma over time., First 22 days|Calculate the Pharmacokinetic Maximum Concentration, The peak plasma concentration of ASN003, First 22 days|Calculate the Pharmacokinetic Half-life, The time required for ASN003 to lose half of its pharmacologic activity., First 22 days|Change from baseline in pharmacodynamic biomarkers, Pre-dose and post-dose pharmacodynamic biomarkers in plasma and tumor biopsy will be compared to assess signs of pharmacodynamic activity, Up to 1 year|Change in the size of measurable tumor lesions, Change from baseline in the sum of the longest dimension in centimeters of each measurable lesion, the presence/absence of lesions that cannot be measured in centimeters, or the presence of new lesions., Up to 1 year|Change in the status of non-measurable tumor lesions, Number of subjects that have resolution of non-measurable tumor lesions., Up to 1 year|Appearance of new tumor lesions, Number of subjects with new lesions, Up to 1 year
Change in tumor mutational status, Tumor biopsy samples will be tested to look for changes, Up to 1 year
The study will be conducted in two parts. Part A is a dose escalation study to determine a safe and tolerable dose of ASN003 for subjects with advanced solid tumors. Part A will also characterize the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of ASN003 through blood sampling and optional biopsies.. Part B will only enroll subjects in three groups:

Group 1: subjects who have metastatic or recurrent melanoma with the BRAFv600 mutation.

Group 2: subjects who have advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer, or colorectal cancer with the BRAFv600 mutation.

Group 3: subjects who have advanced or metastatic cancers with phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI3K) mutations, or phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) loss mutation. Subjects will be treated with the highest safe and tolerable dose determined in Part A of the study to determine preliminary efficacy. Subjects may continue to receive ASN003 for up to 1 year in the absence of severe side effects or disease progression.