The Effect of Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) in Gastric Cancer Surgery
The investigators aimed to clarify the clinical relevance of the ERAS protocol by evaluating the perioperative course in patients undergoing laparoscopic gastric cancer surgery.
Anesthesiology|General Surgery
PROCEDURE: ERAS|PROCEDURE: Conventional care
Length of hospital stay, When patient discharge., From date of admission until the date of discharge, assessed up to 2 weeks.
Complication rates, The complication rates means if there are any complications occur., 28 days
Readmission rates, when the patient is readmitted to the hospital, within 28 days|costs of hospitalization, Total medical expenses incurred during the admission period., From date of admission until the date of discharge, assessed up to 2 weeks.
Gastric cancer is 7th common malignant disease in Taiwan, accounting for 3000 new cases per year. The main treatment of gastric cancer is radical gastrectomy and lymph nodes dissection, which is associated with 13.0\~46 % of surgical morbidities. To minimize the surgical morbidities and enhance patients' recovery, perioperative management is mandatory. Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) is a multimodal, multidisciplinary approach to the care of the surgical patient. ERAS process implementation involves a team consisting of surgeons, anesthetists, an ERAS coordinator, and staff from units that care for the surgical patient. The main elements of ERAS include carbohydrate loading before surgery, minimally invasive approaches, balanced management of intravenous fluids, multimodal pain management, early mobilization, and early oral feeding, etc. Some prospective studies have shown its effectiveness in reduce surgical morbidity and hospital stay in colorectal surgery. In Taiwan, there was only limited report to study the use of ERAS in gastric cancer surgery. The investigators would like to integrate these perioperative interventions into the ERAS program, and test its effectiveness in gastric cancer patients undergoing radical gastrectomy at NTUH.