MRI and Gene Expression in Diagnosing Patients With Ductal Breast Cancer In Situ
This clinical trial studies magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and gene expression in diagnosing patients with abnormal cells in the breast duct that have not spread outside the duct. MRI uses radio waves and a powerful magnet linked to a computer to create detailed pictures of areas inside the body. MRI may help find and diagnose patients with breast cancer. It may also help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment and help plan the best treatment. Genetic studies may help doctors predict the outcome of treatment and the risk for disease recurrence. Performing MRI with genetic studies may help determine the best treatment for patients with breast cancer in situ.
Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ
PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Surgical Procedure|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Endocrine Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure
Proportion of patients judged to be breast conservation candidates based upon standard imaging and physical examination who convert to mastectomy in step 1 based on MRI findings, After MRI (within 30 days following study entry), and prior to surgery|Proportion of patients judged to be breast conservation candidates based upon standard imaging and physical examination who have a mastectomy as the final surgical procedure in step 2, Up to 12 months post-op
Factors associated with DCIS score, The relation between baseline clinical covariates (tumor grade, necrosis, histologic type, mammographic lesion size), MRI morphologic and kinetic features, and the DCIS score will be assessed., After surgery (DCIS Score is determined from surgical specimen)|Diagnostic accuracy of MRI in extent of disease evaluation in patients with DCIS, Up to 12 months post-op|Proportion of patients who require re-operation because of inadequate excision after MRI, A two-sided 95% Wilson confidence interval will be derived., Up to 12 months post-op|Proportion of patients who proceed to mastectomy after an initial attempt at wide local excision because of either inadequate tumor-free margins (< 2mm), or other reasons, A two-sided 95% Wilson confidence interval will be derived. In addition to the overall probability of conversion in this cohort, estimates will be stratified by the reason for conversion., Up to 12 months post-op|IBE rate, Kaplan-Meier curves will be derived for the time to ipsilateral breast event for patients assigned to be treated with RT and those not treated with RT. Point estimates and 95% two-sided confidence intervals will be developed., At 5 years|IBE rate, Kaplan-Meier curves will be derived for the time to ipsilateral breast event for patients assigned to be treated with RT and those not treated with RT. Point estimates and 95% two-sided confidence intervals will be developed., At 10 years|Proportion of women who receive treatment that is concordant with their treatment goals and concerns, The proportion of patients with concordant care will be calculated and a 95% Wilson confidence interval will also be derived., Up to 24 months post-op|Proportion of women whose decision autonomy preference was concordant with perceived level of decision involvement, Concordance will be defined as an exact match between decision autonomy preference (patient-based, shared, surgeon-based) and perceived level of decision involvement (patient based, shared, surgeon-based) as assessed by the Control Preferences Scale, reduced to three categories. The proportion of patients with concordance will be calculated for the sample. In addition, the degree of concordance over the group will be determined using kappa analysis., Up to 5 days after pre-surgical consultation|Decision quality, assessed using the composite of knowledge score and decision process score, To calculate knowledge score, a point for each correct answer on the knowledge questionnaire will be assigned, with missing responses receiving 0 points. A total score will be calculated for all patients who complete at least half of the items and scaled from 0-100%. To calculate a decision process score, a point will be assigned for each "yes" or "a lot/some" response. The sum will be scaled from 0-100%. The average of the two scores will be used as the outcome measure., Up to 5 days after pre-surgical consultation|Role of concordance between decision autonomy preference and perceived level of decision involvement, knowledge and decision process scores as independent predictors of decision satisfaction, Linear regression modeling will be used in which the response variable will be decision satisfaction. The independent variables will be the indicator of concordance between decision autonomy preference and perceived level of decision involvement, the knowledge score and the decision process score. Two-way interactions between predictors will also be examined., Assessed via questionnaire administered at first post-operative visit|Patient-reported quality of life, measured using the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)10 instrument, The relationship of patient-reported outcomes and disease specific covariates, and quality of life will be assessed., At 12 months post-op|Patient-reported quality of life, measured using the PROMIS10 instrument, The relationship of patient-reported outcomes and disease specific covariates, and quality of life will be assessed., At 24 months post-op|Role of disease status, diagnostic test results, and surgeon recommendation as predictors of treatment received, Logistic regression modeling will be used in which the response variable will be the indicator of conversion to mastectomy (vs lumpectomy). The independent variables will include covariates describing disease status at baseline, MRI results, surgeon recommendation, patient decision involvement (such as the decision autonomy preference scale) and treatment concerns (as measured via the 7-item questionnaire). Separate analyses will be performed for conversion to mastectomy directly post MRI and conversion to mastectomy following BCS as the response variable., Up to 24 months post-op|Patient-reported diagnostic testing burden of bilateral mammogram, MRI, and biopsies, measured by TMI, A Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare TMI scores for mammography and MRI. In a secondary analysis regression modeling will be used to examine the effects of patient characteristics on the patient's perception of diagnostic test burden for the two modalities., Up to 5 days after pre-surgical consultation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the proportion of patients with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) diagnosed on core needle biopsy judged to be breast conservation candidates based upon standard imaging (mammography +/- sonography) and physical examination (a) who convert to mastectomy in step 1 based on MRI findings, and (b) who have a mastectomy as the final surgical procedure in step 2.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the relation between baseline clinical covariates (e.g., tumor grade, necrosis, histologic type, mammographic lesion size), MRI morphologic and kinetic features, and the DCIS score.

II. To assess the diagnostic accuracy of MRI in extent of disease evaluation in patients with DCIS.

III. To estimate the proportion of patients who require re-operation because of inadequate excision after MRI.

IV. To estimate the proportion of patients who proceed to mastectomy after an initial attempt at wide local excision because of either inadequate tumor-free margins (\< 2 mm), or other reasons.

V. To estimate the 5-year and 10-year ipsilateral breast event (in situ and invasive) rate (IBE) among women with DCIS assessed with MRI preoperatively and treated with wide local excision without radiation therapy (if there is a low DCIS score) or with radiation therapy (if there is an intermediate-high DCIS score).

VI. To estimate the proportion of women with DCIS who receive treatment that is concordant with their treatment goals and concerns.

VII. To estimate the proportion of women with DCIS whose decision autonomy preference was concordant with perceived level of decision involvement.

VIII. To assess decision quality using knowledge score and decision process. IX. To assess concordance between decision autonomy preference and perceived level of decision involvement, knowledge and decision process scores as independent predictors of decision satisfaction at the first post-operative visit.

X. To assess the relationship of patient-reported outcomes and disease-specific covariates, and quality of life after treatment.

XI. To assess the role of disease status, diagnostic test results and surgeon recommendation as predictors of treatment received.

XII. To compare the patient-reported diagnostic testing burden of bilateral mammography and MRI as measured by Testing Morbidities Index (TMI).

OUTLINE:

STEP 1:

ARM A: Patients undergo MRI prior to surgery. Patients undergo additional imaging and/or biopsies if indicated based on MRI.

STEP 2: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms based on the results of the MRI.

ARM B: Patients undergo a mastectomy. Patients do not register for Step 3.

ARM C: Patients undergo wide local excision +/- re-excision. Patients may cross-over to Arm B if mastectomy is indicated. Tissue samples collected during surgery are used to calculate the DCIS score using genetic analysis testing. Patients may then proceed to Step 3.

STEP 3: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms based on the results of the DCIS score test.

ARM D (DCIS score \< 39): Patients undergo endocrine therapy as directed.

ARM E (DCIS score \>= 39): Patients undergo radiation therapy and endocrine therapy as directed.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years and then every 12 months for 5 years.