Anlotinib Hydrochloride Versus Imatinib Mesylate in Locally Advanced, Unresectable or Metastatic Chordoma
For local relapse not amenable to reasonable curative surgery or for those with metastatic chordoma, chemotherapy is recognised as inactive. The major study drug is the small molecular tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeted at the stem cell factor receptor (KIT) and the platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFRA and PDGFRB), eg. imatinib. Anlotinib is a novel tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting both at VEGFR-2, -3 and PDGFRA and PDGFRB with high affinity, which also showed broad antitumor activity against EGFR and so on. Thus this multicenter, two-armed phase II trial of PKUPH-sarcoma 05 intended to investigate the efficacy and safety of anlotinib versus imatinib on advanced chordoma.
Effect of Drugs|Quality of Life|Chordoma|Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Anlotinib Hydrochloride
Objective response rate, ORR, CR+PR in the intent-to-treat population according to RECIST, version 1.1, 6 months|Progression-free Survival, PFS, Progression-free survival is defined as time from randomisation to the first occurrence of progression of disease or death from any cause within 63 days of last response assessment or randomisation, 2 years
Overall Survival, OS, OS is defined as time from randomisation to the first occurrence of death from any cause within 63 days of last response assessment or randomisation., 5 years
For local relapse not amenable to reasonable curative surgery or for those with metastatic chordoma, chemotherapy is recognised as inactive. The major study drug is the small molecular tyrosine kinase inhibitors targeted at the stem cell factor receptor (KIT) and the platelet-derived growth factor receptors (PDGFRA and PDGFRB), eg. imatinib. Anlotinib is a novel tyrosine kinase inhibitor targeting both at VEGFR-2, -3 and PDGFRA and PDGFRB with high affinity, which also showed broad antitumor activity against EGFR and so on. Thus this multicenter, two-armed phase II trial of PKUPH-sarcoma 05 intended to investigate the efficacy and safety of anlotinib versus imatinib on advanced chordoma.