Vemurafenib, Cobimetinib, Atezolizumab, and Tiragolumab in Treating Patients With High-Risk Stage III Melanoma
This trial studies how well vemurafenib, cobimetinib, and atezolizumab work in treating patients with high-risk stage III melanoma. Vemurafenib and cobimetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab and tiragolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving vemurafenib, cobimetinib, and atezolizumab may work better in treating high-risk stage III melanoma. Giving atezolizumab and tiragolumab together may also work better in treating high-risk stage III melanoma.
Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIID Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8
DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Cobimetinib|BIOLOGICAL: Tiragolumab|DRUG: Vemurafenib
Pathologic complete response rate (pCR) in patients with stage III BRAFm (mutant) melanoma (neoadjuvant phase), Pathologic complete response rate defined as the percentage of patients with no residual disease found in the surgical specimen among the patients who began neo-adjuvant protocol treatment. An interval estimate will be obtained using the formula for a 90% binomial confidence interval for one sample proportion., After 12 weeks of therapy|Pathologic complete response rate in patients with stage III BRAFwt (wild type) melanoma (neoadjuvant phase), Pathologic complete response rate defined as the percentage of patients with no residual disease found in the surgical specimen among the patients who began neo-adjuvant protocol treatment. An interval estimate will be obtained using the formula for a 90% binomial confidence interval for one sample proportion., After 12 weeks of therapy|Median recurrence-free (RFS) rate (adjuvant phase), Recurrence-free survival is defined as the time from surgery to radiographic or histologic evidence of local, regional, or distant recurrence of melanoma or death due to any cause. For each regimen, the distribution of recurrence-free survival times \[denoted as RFS(t)\] will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. A 90% confidence interval for V(t) = log \[-log (RFS(t)\] will be constructed and then the inverse transformation exp\[-exp v(t)\] will be used to obtain a confidence for RFS(t)., From surgery assessed up to 3 years
Incidence of adverse events per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) (neoadjuvant phase), For each cohort, the frequency and severity of toxicities will be documented using the CTCAE criteria and tabulated for the neo-adjuvant phase and post-operative visit separately., After 12 weeks of therapy|Change in the uptake on Positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) results, For each cohort, the percent change in the uptake on PET/CT scan taken at the completion of neo-adjuvant treatment from that on PET/CT scan taken prior to the start of neo-adjuvant treatment will be determined. Also, the appearance of new sites of uptake in the post neo-adjuvant treatment scan and lack of uptake in the areas where uptake was seen in the pre-treatment scan will be noted., Baseline to end of neo-adjuvant treatment
Pretreatment soluble (s)PD-L1, pretreatment tumor PD-L1, and pretreatment intracellular Bim in tumor-related T cells, Stratified Cox modeling will be conducted with participant cohort as the strata to obtain a point and interval estimate of the hazard of recurrence among those with biomarker levels thought to be delirious relative to the hazard of recurrence among those with biomarker levels thought not to be delirious., Up to 3 years|Molecular features of melanomas and the tumor immune microenvironment evaluated with multiplexed immunohistochemistry (mIHC) and ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNASeq), Graphs will be constructed to visually compare and contrast the levels of these biomarkers between those who achieve a pCR and those who did not. Binomial confidence intervals for the difference in two independent proportions or t confidence intervals for the difference in two independent means will be used to gain preliminary insights into the difference in these biomarkers among those who achieve a pCR and those who did not., Up to 3 years|Changes in the concentration of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) during neoadjuvant treatment, Will be correlated with pCR. Graphs will be constructed to visually compare and contrast the level of tumor DNA between those who achieve a pCR and those who do not., Up to 3 years|Changes in T cell receptor clonality, A waterfall plot of the percent change will be constructed by pCR status. A two sample Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to assess whether the percent change in intra-tumoral T cells from the primary lesion or in peripheral blood T cells differ among those who have a pCR and those who do not. Also, the proportion of patients who have a change in intra-tumoral T cell clonality and the proportion of patients who have a change in peripheral blood T cell clonality will be determined. For each of these parameters, a 95% binomial confidence interval for the difference in the parameter between those who have a pCR and those who do not will be constructed. Finally, the ratio of the intra-tumoral T cell clonality in the involved lymph node to the intra-tumoral T cell clonality in the uninvolved lymph node will be determined. This ratio will be summarized descriptively using median and inter-quartile range., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the percentage of patients with stage III BRAFV600 mutated (BRAFm) melanoma that achieves a pathologic complete response after 12 weeks of neoadjuvant vemurafenib/cobimetinib/atezolizumab (neoadjuvant phase).

II. To estimate the percentage of patients with stage III BRAF-wild-type (BRAFwt) melanoma that achieves a pathologic complete response after 12 weeks of neoadjuvant cobimetinib/atezolizumab (neoadjuvant phase).

III. To estimate the percentage of patients with stage III melanoma that achieves a pathologic complete response (pCR) after 12 weeks of neoadjuvant atezolizumab/tiragolumab (neoadjuvant phase).

IV. To assess recurrence-free survival (RFS) in patients with stage III BRAFm melanoma after neoadjuvant vemurafenib/cobimetinib/ atezolizumab, surgery, and adjuvant atezolizumab (adjuvant phase).

V. To assess RFS in patients with stage III BRAFwt melanoma after neoadjuvant cobimetinib/atezolizumab, surgery, and adjuvant atezolizumab (adjuvant phase).

VI. To assess RFS in patients with stage III melanoma after neoadjuvant atezolizumab/tiragolumab, surgery, and adjuvant atezolizumab (adjuvant phase).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the frequency of adverse events among patients with stage III BRAFm melanoma receiving neoadjuvant vemurafenib / cobimetinib / atezolizumab followed by surgery followed by adjuvant atezolizumab.

II. To determine the frequency of adverse events among patients with stage III BRAFwt melanoma receiving neoadjuvant cobimetinib/atezolizumab followed by surgery followed by adjuvant atezolizumab.

III. To determine the frequency of adverse events among patients with stage III melanoma receiving neoadjuvant atezolizumab/tiragolumab followed by surgery followed by adjuvant atezolizumab.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the association between pretreatment, on treatment, post-neoadjuvant and post-adjuvant treatment soluble PD-L1 (sPD-L1) and RFS in patients with stage III melanoma receiving neoadjuvant vemurafenib / cobimetinib / atezolizumab or cobimetinib/atezolizumab, or atezolizumab/tiragolumab, followed by surgery and adjuvant atezolizumab.

II. To determine the association between pretreatment, on treatment, post-neoadjuvant and post-adjuvant treatment intracellular bim in tumor-related T cells and RFS in patients with stage III melanoma after neoadjuvant vemurafenib/cobimetinib/atezolizumab or cobimetinib/atezolizumab, or atezolizumab/tiragolumab, followed by surgery and adjuvant atezolizumab.

III. Evaluate associations between pre and post-neoadjuvant treatment molecular features of melanomas and the tumor immune microenvironment in responders versus non-responders with multiplex immunofluorescence (MxIF) (including T-cell immunoreceptor with immunoglobulin and immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motif domains \[TIGIT\]) and ribonucleic acid-sequencing (RNA-Seq) in patients with stage III melanoma after neoadjuvant vemurafenib/cobimetinib/atezolizumab or cobimetinib/atezolizumab, or atezolizumab/tiragolumab, followed by surgery and adjuvant atezolizumab.

IV. To determine the association between pretreatment tumor PD-L1, pCR, and RFS in patients with stage III melanoma receiving neoadjuvant vemurafenib/ cobimetinib/ atezolizumab or cobimetinib/atezolizumab, or atezolizumab/tiragolumab, followed by surgery and adjuvant atezolizumab.

V. To evaluate changes in cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) over time to determine whether these changes correlate with clinical outcomes, including pathologic complete response and cancer progression.

VI. To compare T cell receptor diversity/clonality in pretreatment tumor, tumor and uninvolved lymph node from the time of surgery, as well as blood from before treatment, after neoadjuvant treatment, after surgery, and after adjuvant treatment.

VII. To compare the frequency of neoantigen-specific T cells in pretreatment tumor, tumor and uninvolved lymph node from the time of surgery, as well as blood from before treatment, after neoadjuvant treatment, after surgery, and after adjuvant treatment.

VIII. To compare peripheral blood mononuclear cell subsets from before treatment, after neoadjuvant treatment, after surgery, and after adjuvant treatment via multiparametric mass cytometry (CyTOF).

IX. To assess whether treatment response to neoadjuvant systemic therapy in the index biopsy-proven metastatic node is indicative of the overall response in the nodal basin.

X. To evaluate whether baseline or changes over time in microbiome samples correlate with clinical outcomes, including pathologic complete response and cancer progression.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to Arm C.

ARM A (BRAF mutant): Patients receive vemurafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 and cobimetinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Patients also receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of cycles 2 and 3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL)

ARM B (BRAF wild-type): Patients receive cobimetinib as in Arm A and atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL)

ARM C: Patients with BRAF wild-type or BRAF mutant melanoma receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes and tiragolumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Within 2-4 weeks after treatment, patients undergo surgery then receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeat every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 3 years.