Guadecitabine in Treating Patients With Higher-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This phase II trial studies how well guadecitabine works in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes that are at higher risk for becoming acute myeloid leukemia. Guadecitabine may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Guadecitabine
Complete response rates, Estimated along with 95% credible intervals., Up to 5 years
Incidence of adverse events, The method of Thall, Simon, and Estey will be used to monitor toxicity (adverse events). Summarized using frequency and percentage, by organ type, grade and attribution., Up to 5 years|Mortality rate, The method of Thall, Simon, and Estey will be used to monitor mortality., At 3 months|Overall response rates, Estimated along with 95% credible intervals., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each patient cohort., Up to 5 years|Time to acute myeloid leukemia (AML) transformation, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each patient cohort., Up to 5 years|Event-free survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each patient cohort., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rate with SGI-110 (guadecitabine) in patients with higher risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall response rate, survival, transformation to acute myeloid leukemia (AML), transfusion independence.

II. Safety and toxicity.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 4-8 weeks for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable disease after 3 courses are taken off therapy after 6 courses. Patients may continue to receive treatment after 24 courses if the investigator determines it is in the patient's best interest.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 2 months.