Radiation Therapy and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With HPV-Related Oropharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well radiation therapy and docetaxel work in treating patients with human papillomavirus (HPV)-related oropharyngeal cancer. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving radiation therapy with docetaxel my kill more tumor cells.
Human Papillomavirus Infection|Stage I Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Docetaxel|RADIATION: Hyperfractionation|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
2-year Loco-regional Tumor Control (LRC) Rate, The 2-year loco-regional tumor control (LRC) rate (percentage) is defined as the percentage of patients with no local/regional recurrence or death 2 years after study registration., 2 years
Incidence of Grade 3 or Higher Mucositis Oral, The overall percentage of patients experiencing grade 3 or higher mucositis oral graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 are reported below., 4 months post-hyperfractionated radiation therapy|2-year Overall Survival (OS) Rate, The distribution of OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., 2 years|2-year Progression-free Survival (PFS), The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the first of either disease recurrence or death, assessed up to 2 years|2-year Distant Metastasis-free Survival Rate, The 2-year Distant metastasis-free survival rate (percentage) is defined as the percentage of patients with no distant recurrence or death 2 years after study registration., 2 years|Change From Mean Baseline Score to Mean Score at 12 Months Post-RT in Swallow Function as Measured by the Pharyngeal Total Modified Barium Swallow Impairment Profile., The swallow evaluation consists of a modified barium swallow study(MBS), Functional Oral Intake Scale(FOIS), and Performance Status Scale Head \& Neck(PSS-HN).The 17 swallow questions are rated using a 0 to 5 point scale, with 0 meaning no impairment and 5 max impairment. 6 questions produce a total oral score; scores from 10 questions produce a total pharyngeal score; 1 question produces an esophageal score.The PAS is a validated 8-point scale that ranks the depth of the bolus entry into the airway.A score of 1 indicates no airway entrance;score of 6+ indicate bolus passage past the vocal folds (aspiration).FOIS ranges from 1(nothing by mouth) to 7(total oral diet with no restrictions).PSS-H\&N has 3 components:eating in public(0=always eat alone to 100=no restriction), understandability of speech(0=never understandable, score 100=always understandable), and normalcy of diet(score 0=tube fed to 100=full diet).These scores are summed and normalized to a 0 to 100 scale where 100 is best., 12 months|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Head and Neck (FACT H& N) (Version 4), The FACT-H\&N is a multidimensional, self-report QOL instrument specifically designed for use with head and neck cancer patients. It consists of 27 core items which assess patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, in addition to 12 site specific items to assess for head and neck related symptoms. Each item is rated on a 0 to 4 type scale where 4 is favorable and 0 unfavorable, and then combined to produce subscale scores for each domain, as well as a global QOL score- with possible score range from 0 to 156. Higher scores represent better QOL., 1 year|European Organization for Research and Treatment for Cancer QOL Questionnaire for Head and Neck Cancer Module 35 (EORTC-QLQ HN35), QOL was measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment for Cancer QOL Questionnaire for Head and Neck Cancer Module 35 (EORTC-QLQ HN35) at baseline and at 1-year post-treatment. Each question scores 0-4, with 0 being favorable and 4 being unfavorable. The average total score at baseline and average total score at 12 months post-RT is reported. The max total score possible is 140(Unfavorable) and the minimum total score possible is 0(Favorable). An increase in score indicates a greater quality of life A paired t-test compares the scores at these two timepoints., 1 year post-treatment|EuroQol Five-dimensional Instrument (EQ-5D-3L), QOL was measured by the three-level version of the EuroQol five-dimensional instrument (EQ-5D-3L) at baseline and 1-year post-treatment. This consisted of 5 questions, each score 0 to 3 points with 3 being unfavorable and 0 being favorable. The total possible score per patient per time point is 15 and a minimum score of 0(favorable). The change in average total score at baseline and 12 months post-RT is reported. A paired t-test compares the scores at these two time points. A higher score indicates greater impairment., 1 year post-treatment
Changes in Transforming Growth Factor (TGF)-beta1 Levels, These markers will be correlated with clinical endpoints like acute adverse events, cumulative incidence rates of local/regional failure, overall survival, and disease-free survival., Baseline to 1 week post-radiation|E6/E7 Messenger Ribonucleic Acid (mRNA) of HPV16, Assessed on a Chromogenic RNA in Situ Hybridization (ISH) Assay Called RNAscope, These markers will be correlated with clinical endpoints like acute adverse events, cumulative incidence rates of local/regional failure, overall survival, and disease-free survival., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the cumulative incidence of local/regional failure at 2 years after study registration.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the rate of acute grade 3 or higher functional mucosal adverse events (up to 1 month post-radiation therapy \[XRT\]) associated with adjuvant docetaxel + hyperfractionated radiotherapy (key secondary endpoint).

II. To assess changes in overall survival, disease-free survival, distant failure rates, and quality of life (QOL) associated with adjuvant docetaxel and hyperfractionated radiation.

III. To characterize other acute adverse events (up to 1 month post-XRT) and late grade 3 or higher non-hematologic adverse events (up to 2 years post-XRT) associated with adjuvant docetaxel + hyperfractionated radiotherapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the genetic alterations of oropharynx tumor specimens and the detection rate of corresponding cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) in the pre-surgical, post-surgical, and post-radiation blood of oropharynx cancer patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1 and 8 and undergo hyperfractionated intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) twice daily (BID) 5 days a week on days 1-12 for a total of 20 fractions.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 14 days, 1 month, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 1 year and then annually for 2 years.