Bendamustine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Progressive Anaplastic Glioma
This phase II trial studies how well bendamustine hydrochloride works in treating patients with anaplastic glioma or glioblastoma that has come back (recurrent) or growing, spreading or getting worse (progressive). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as bendamustine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Adult Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Adult Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Neoplasm
DRUG: Bendamustine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
PFS-6, Defined as the proportion of patients who remain alive and free of any disease progression at 6 months. PFS over time will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method with standard errors estimated using Greenwood's formula., At 6 months
PFS, Defined as the time from date of initial therapy to first objective documentation of tumor progression or death., Up to progression or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 108 months|Toxic Death, Defined as death that is possibly, probably, or definitely attributed to bendamustine hydrochloride., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Overall Survival, \*inclusive of subjects still alive at time of last reporting., Until death or last reported survival
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The primary endpoint for this study is the 6-month progression-free survival-i.e., the proportion of patients who remain alive and free of any tumor progression at 6 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of single agent bendamustine (Treanda) (bendamustine hydrochloride) the treatment of malignant gliomas.

II. To determine the efficacy of bendamustine (Treanda) as a single agent as assessed by progression-free survival (PFS) at 6 months.

III. To assess quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-BR).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bendamustine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1-2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 2 months for up to 3 years.