A Study to Evaluate Efficacy and Safety of Zanubrutinib With R-CHOP in Newly Diagnosed Non-GCB DLBCL Patients With Double Expression
Zanubrutinib is a highly specific, potent new Bruton's tyrosine kinase （BTK） inhibitor, with minimal off-target inhibition of other kinases. This is a single-arm, open-label Phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zanubrutinib in combination with Rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP) in newly diagnosed non-GCB Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients with co-expression of B-cell lymphoma 2 （BCL2）and myelocytomatosis oncogene（MYC）.
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma(DLBCL)
DRUG: Zanubrutinib + R-CHOP
3-year event-free survival (EFS) rate, 3-year EFS rate is defined as the proportion of patients free from EFS events at 3 years after the initiation of zanubrutinib and RCHOP combination therapy estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. EFS is defined as the duration from the initiation of zanubrutinib and RCHOP combination therapy to the date of documented disease progression, relapse from CR, initiation of subsequent systemic anti-lymphoma therapy for either positron emission computed tomography (PET)-positive or biopsy-proven residual disease after six cycles of Zanubrutinib and R-CHOP combination therapy, or any-cause death whichever occurs first., up to 3 years
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients achieving complete response (CR) and partial response (PR), as per Lugano Classification., up to 18 weeks|Complete response rate (CRR), CRR is defined as proportion of patients achieving CR, as determined per Lugano Classification., up to 18 weeks|3-year progression-free survival rate （PFS), 3-year PFS rate is defined as the proportion of patients free from PFS events at 3 years after the initiation of zanubrutinib and RCHOP combination therapy estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. PFS is defined as the duration from the initiation of zanubrutinib and RCHOP combination therapy to the date of disease progression, relapse from CR, or death, whichever occurs first., up to 3 years|3-year overall survival (OS) rate, 3-year OS rate is defined as the proportion of patients alive at 3 years after the initiation of zanubrutinib and RCHOP combination therapy estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. OS is defined as the duration from the date of initiation of zanubrutinib and RCHOP combination therapy to the date of death., up to 3 years|adverse event（AE）, The incidence and severity of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), serious adverse event（SAEs）and reatment-related AEs according to CTCAE v5.0, up to 2 years
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma as the most common lymphoma, is heterogeneous. R-CHOP is the standard care in front-line DLBCL treatment. However, there are still about 40% of the DLBCL patients treated with R-CHOP relapse or respond poorly.

There are 20%-30% DLBCL patients having BCL2 and MYC co-expression, which are more common in activated B -cell-like（ABC）-DLBCL. Previous study showed that patients with co-expression of BCL2 and MYC by immunohistochemistry (IHC) have a worse outcome with R-CHOP.

Efficacy results from Studies PCYC-04753 and PCYC-1106-CA demonstrate that BTK inhibitor ibrutinib has some activity as a single agent in subjects with relapsed or refractory DLBCL, with possible lower response rates in subjects with the germinal center B-cell-like （GCB）subtype.

In post hoc of PHEONIX study, non-GCB subgroup pts with MYC-high + BCL2-high had better event free survival （EFS ）(HR 0.648; 95% confidence interval （CI), 0.423-0.993; p = 0.045) with ibrutinib + R-CHOP versus placebo + R-CHOP.

Zanubrutinib is a highly specific, potent new BTK inhibitor, with minimal off-target inhibition of other kinases, and is associated with better tolerability, compared with ibrutinib. A post hoc analysis on 4 studies found that Patients with MYC and BCL2 double-expressor DLBCL resulted in objective response rate（ORR）of 61% and progression free survival (PFS) of 5.4m when treated with zanubrutinib. However, it is still unknown the benefit of zanubrutinib and RCHOP combination therapy followed by zanubrutinib maintenance in non-GCB DLBCL patients with co-expression of BCL2 and MYC.

This is a single-arm, phase II study, to evaluate the efficacy and safety of zanubrutinib in combination with R-CHOP followed by zanubrutinib maintenance in newly diagnosed non-GCB subtype of DLBCL patients with MYC-high + BCL2-high selected by IHC.

The study will include a Screening Phase, Combination Treatment Phase, Maintenance phase and a Post Treatment Follow-up Phase.