Phase I/II Hypofractionated Radiotherapy for Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to examine the clinical feasibility of using Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) combined with daily pretreatment prostate localization to deliver increasingly hypofractionated treatment courses. Progressively larger fraction sizes will be delivered in a phase I design based on both acute and long-term tolerances to the treatment. The dose-per-fraction escalation design utilizes schemas that maintain an isoeffective dose for late effects, while predicting that tumor control will actually improve. The delivery of fewer, larger fractions of radiation, if proven effective and safe, would result in significant cost saving and more efficient use of resources. Phase II will commence with Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) finding with up to 200 additional patients being enrolled during this phase of the study.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Number of Participants Who Experience Grade 3 or Higher Acute Toxicities, To evaluate acute tolerances to dose-per-fraction escalation in the treatment of prostate cancer using optimized treatment of Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT), daily rectal balloon displacement, and transabdominal ultrasound localization of the prostate. For toxicities observed within the first 10 patients at each hypofractionation level, ≥20% acute grade 3 or higher GI or genitourinary (GU) toxicity will constitute a threshold toxicity level and will dictate a decrease in frequency of treatment by one treatment per week. Maximum tolerated dose is reached if 20% of participants experience acute toxicities grade 3 or higher., 90 days post radiation treatment|Number of Subjects Experiencing Grade 2 or Higher Late Rectal Toxicities at Any Time During Follow Up, To evaluate late radiation toxicities to dose-per fraction escalation in the treatment of prostate, from 90 days post XRT through last follow-up visit (up to 3 years)
Biochemical Progression-free Survival Based on PSA Surveillance, Patients will be considered to be without biochemical recurrence if either the Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) is still declining or the PSA nadir has been reached and is below 1.0ng/ml, up to 15 years from enrollment|Fox Chase Bowel Survey at Baseline and 3 Years, The Fox Chase Bowel/Bladder survey was divided into two sections: Bowel (questions 1 to 14, N=14) and Bladder (questions 19, and 21 to 30, N=11). To facilitate analysis, Bowel and Bladder scores for each section were rescaled to a total score of between 0 - 100, where higher scores indicated better Quality of Life (QoL). Results for the Bowel Section are reported here., Baseline and 3 years|Fox Chase Bladder Survey at Baseline and 3 Years, The Fox Chase Bowel/Bladder survey was divided into two sections: Bowel (questions 1 to 14, N=14) and Bladder (questions 19, and 21 to 30, N=11). To facilitate analysis, Bowel and Bladder scores for each section were rescaled to a total score of between 0 - 100, where higher scores indicated better Quality of Life. Results for the Bladder Section are reported here., Baseline and 3 years|International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) Score at Baseline and 3 Years, The IIEF is a 15-item survey where 9-items are scored 0-5 and 6-items are scored 1-5 with a total range of 6-75. The standard scoring mechanism was used for IIEF, where the QoL items corresponded to the following domains: erectile function (score range 1-30), orgasmic function (score range 1-10), sexual desire (score range 2-10), intercourse satisfaction (score range 0-15), and overall satisfaction (score range 2-10). Higher numbers indicate increased QoL., Baseline and 3 years|Spritzer Quality of Life Index (SQLI) at Baseline and 3 Years, The SQLI is composed of five items (activity, daily living, health, support, outlook) scored utilizing a numerical scale of 0-2. Standard scoring was also used for the SQLI survey (total score range 0-10) where higher score indicate increased QoL., Baseline and 3 years
The purpose of this study is to examine the clinical feasibility of using Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) combined with daily pretreatment prostate localization to deliver increasingly hypofractionated treatment courses. Progressively larger fraction sizes will be delivered in a phase I design based on both acute and long-term tolerances to the treatment. The dose-per-fraction escalation design utilizes schemas that maintain an isoeffective dose for late effects, while predicting that tumor control will actually improve. The delivery of fewer, larger fractions of radiation, if proven effective and safe, would result in significant cost saving and more efficient use of resources. Phase II will commence with Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) finding with up to 200 additional patients being enrolled during this phase of the study.