Application of HBV Rapid Tests as a Tool for Wide-Use Screening
With over 280 000 chronic carriers, 2,500 new annual cases and 1,300 deaths each year, hepatitis B is currently a frequent and potentially severe disease in France, despite efforts towards prevention and effective care.

In terms of prevention, France has very low immunization coverage (27.7%) and a high percentage of people ignoring HBV status (55%), leading to a delay in care. This is partly explained by poor knowledge of hepatitis B infection in the general population and an underestimation of the health impact of hepatitis B by doctors and health officials. Until recently, there have been no national guidelines governing its implementation (which is variable depending on the structures where screening is performed) and an insufficient evaluation of screening practices. Thus, data on the severity of liver disease, indications for treatment of HBV-infected patients and data on the use of vaccination for nonimmunized people are scarce. Furthermore, while HIV rapid tests are beginning to be used more widely, particularly to address the issue of people who do not come back and collect their results and to better adapt "counselling", their usefulness to detect of hepatitis B virus has not been evaluated to date.

The main objective of the Optiscreen B Study is to determine the benefit, if any, of using rapid tests as a screening tool to improve diagnosis, care and prevention of hepatitis B. Individuals risk of HBV-infection will be randomized into 2 groups, one group for which screening will be performed by usual serological test and a second group for which screening will be based on rapid tests. Centers will be selected to represent a diverse range of health centers whose aims include screening, prevention and/or vaccination.
Hepatitis B|Liver Cirrhosis|Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
OTHER: ELISA testing|OTHER: Rapid testing
Percentage of Patients Appropriately Seeking Care, Subjects who are considered required to seek further care are as follows:

* those who need HBV vaccination (non-immunized)
* those who are infected with hepatitis B virus (infected)

Of these patients, subjects who have achieved appropriate care are considered as follows:

* non immunized subjects who have initiated HBV vaccination sequence (vaccinated)
* infected subjects who seek health care at a specialized center, allowing to quantify the severity of liver-related disease (infected with care)

The percentage of patients appropriately seeking care will be then calculated by the following formula:

((nb Vaccinated + nb infected with care) / (nb non-immunized + nb infected))\*100, 6 months
With over 280 000 chronic carriers, 2,500 new annual cases and 1,300 deaths each year, hepatitis B is currently a frequent and potentially severe disease in France, despite efforts towards prevention and effective care.

In terms of prevention, France has very low immunization coverage (27.7%) and a high percentage of people ignoring HBV status (55%), leading to a delay in care. This is partly explained by poor knowledge of hepatitis B infection in the general population and an underestimation of the health impact of hepatitis B by doctors and health officials. Until recently, there have been no national guidelines governing its implementation (which is variable depending on the structures where screening is performed) and an insufficient evaluation of screening practices. Thus, data on the severity of liver disease, indications for treatment of HBV-infected patients and data on the use of vaccination for nonimmunized people are scarce. Furthermore, while HIV rapid tests are beginning to be used more widely, particularly to address the issue of people who do not come back and collect their results and to better adapt "counselling", their usefulness to detect of hepatitis B virus has not been evaluated to date.

The main objective of the Optiscreen B Study is to determine the benefit, if any, of using rapid tests as a screening tool to improve diagnosis, care and prevention of hepatitis B. Individuals risk of HBV-infection will be randomized into 2 groups, one group for which screening will be performed by usual serological test and a second group for which screening will be based on rapid tests. Centers will be selected to represent a diverse range of health centers whose aims include screening, prevention and/or vaccination.