Carfilzomib, Rituximab, and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of carfilzomib when given together with rituximab and combination chemotherapy and to see how well they work in treating patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth by finding cancer cells and helping kill them. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. It is not known if carfilzomib in combination with R-CHOP is better or worse than R-CHOP alone in treating patients with diffuse large b-cell lymphoma.
Contiguous Stage II Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Noncontiguous Stage II Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Stage I Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Stage III Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Stage IV Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Carfilzomib|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: Vincristine sulfate|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Pegfilgrastim|DRUG: Acyclovir
Recommended Phase II Dose (Phase I), Highest dose administered when no more than 1 out of 6 patients experience lose limiting toxicity below the maximally administered dose., Through cycle 6 (each cycle is 21 days)
Progression Free Survival (Phase II), PFS will be estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve. Progression-free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from entry onto study until lymphoma progression or death from any cause. Participants was evaluated utilizing RECIST v1.0 criteria at baseline, 3 months after beginning treatment, end of treatment (6 cycles of therapy), and at 6 month, 12 month, and 24 month follow up visit. RECIST v1.0 criteria for Malignant Lymphoma use the following categories of response: Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Relapse and Progression (PD)., 31 months after treatment|Overall Survival (Phase II), Overall survival will be estimated with a Kaplan-Meier curve. Overall survival is defined as the time from entry onto study until lymphoma progression or death from any cause., 31 months after treatment|Complete Response Rate (Phase II), The percentage of patients with a complete response as defined by a complete disappearance of all detectable clinical evidence of disease, and disease-related symptoms if present prior to therapy, 31 months after treatment|Partial Response Rate (Phase II), The percentage of patients with a partial response as defined a \>50% decrease in the sum of the product of the diameter of up to six of the largest nodes; no increase in the any node, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease., 31 months after treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of carfilzomib in combination with rituximab-cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP) (CR-CHOP) in patients with newly diagnosed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and identify a recommended phase II dose (RP2D). (Phase I)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if CR-CHOP improves the rates of 1-year progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in non-germinal center (non-GC) DLBCL patients relative to historical controls treated with R-CHOP(Phase II) II. To determine response rates (complete and partial remission) in non-GC DLBCL patients treated with CR-CHOP and compare to historical controls treated with R-CHOP.

III. Because a proportion (\~10%) of patients classified as non-GC by immunohistochemical (IHC) algorithms may not have the activated B-cells (ABC) subtyped of DLBCL, an exploratory secondary objective will compare the PFS, OS and response rates of the ABC subgroup of patients with DLBCL as determined by the Gene Expression Profiling with those of the overall group of non-GC DLBCL.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of carfilzomib followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over at least 90 minutes, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 3-5 minutes, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on day 1, and prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-5. Patients also receive carfilzomib IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 2, 8 and 9. Courses repeat every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and at 6, 12, and 24 months.