Improving Implementation of Lung Cancer Screening in Diverse Populations II
This project assesses the feasibility, appropriateness, and acceptability of a "Commonly Asked Questions after Lung Cancer Screening" (CAQ) informational document that the investigators created, resulting from patient and provider discussion in focus groups and interviews. If effective, the CAQ may be a new tool to help improve patient understanding of LCS results and adherence to follow-up recommendations.
Early Detection of Cancer|Lung Cancer
OTHER: CAQ
Patient Understanding, Ratings of "I understand the results of my most recent LCS CT scan" on a Likert Scale, 1 week post-randomization|Patient Next Step, Correct self-report of next step based on Lung-RADS standardized follow-up, 1 week post-randomization|Patient Distress, Symptoms of distress based on Impact of Event Scale (IES), 1 week post-randomization|CAQ Appropriateness and Acceptability, Survey questions soliciting patient opinion of CAQ, 1 week post-randomization
Other Patient Knowledge and Understanding, Survey questions regarding knowledge and understanding of essential components of lung cancer screening and results, 1 week post-randomization
Barriers to optimal implementation of lung cancer screening (LCS) include low levels of patient knowledge. Patient understanding of LCS results may alleviate distress and improve understanding of recommendations. The investigators developed a "Commonly Asked Questions after LCS" (CAQ) information sheet based on gaps in knowledge identified by patient focus groups and provider interviews. The study objective was to assess CAQ appropriateness and acceptability, and preliminary impact on patient understanding and distress after receiving LCS results.

The investigators conducted a pilot alternating intervention controlled trial of the CAQ. All patients in the University of Washington/Seattle Cancer Care Alliance LCS program who underwent baseline or annual LCS were received a mailing within one week of their scan, either: 1) usual care: a brief form letter with screening results; or 2) usual care plus the CAQ (intervention). The mailing assignment was alternated weekly. Mailed follow-up surveys assessed appropriateness and acceptability of CAQ as well as LCS knowledge in the intervention group.

Primary outcomes include: 1) Ratings of "I understand the results of my most recent LCS CT scan" on a Likert Scale; 2) Correct self-report of next step based on Lung-RADS standardized follow-up; 3) symptoms of distress (measured by IES); as well as 4) measures of acceptability and appropriateness. Secondary outcomes include responses to 6 questions regarding lung cancer screening knowledge.