BrUOG 337: Olaparib Prior to Radical Prostatectomy For Advanced Prostate Cancer Defects in DNA Repair Genes
This study will evaluate approximately 3 months of treatment with the drug olaparib in patients with prostate cancer. A capsule formulation of olaparib (tradename Lynparza™) is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of women with advanced BRCA-mutated ovarian cancer. Olaparib is an investigational drug in prostate cancer. A tablet formulation of olaparib is being tested in this study. It is a new formulation which is more convenient for patients than the approved capsule formulation because fewer tablets of olaparib need to be taken daily than with capsules.

The purpose of the study is to evaluate whether olaparib can reduce prostate cancer with defects in DNA repair genes when olaparib is given for approximately 3 months before surgery.
Prostate Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
DRUG: Olaparib Pill|PROCEDURE: Prostatectomy
Number of Participants With Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Response, Response:Reduction of at least 50% in the prostate-specific antigen level from baseline Progression:A 25% increase in PSA from baseline

Baseline then approximately 8 weeks later and 2 weeks post Olaparib, approximately 10-14 weeks after baseline and then approximately every 6 months for 2 years in follow-up., Throughout the trial for approximately 2 years
PSA Progression-free Survival of Olaparib and Radical Prostatectomy for Patients With Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer and Defects in DNA Repair Genes., Evaluation by treating physician, Post treatment (approximately 8-12 weeks) and approximately every 6 months for 2 years.
1.1 Primary Objective 1.1.1. To evaluate the Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) response rate of olaparib prior to radical prostatectomy for patients with locally advanced prostate cancer and defects in DNA repair genes.

1.2 Secondary Objectives 1.2.1 To evaluate the PSA progression-free survival of olaparib and radical prostatectomy for patients with locally advanced prostate cancer and defects in DNA repair genes.

1.2.2 To evaluate the safety of olaparib prior to radical prostatectomy for patients with locally advanced prostate cancer

1.2.3 To evaluate the rate of defects in DNA repair genes in patients with newly diagnosed locally advanced prostate cancer.