A Study of ABT-199 Plus Ibrutinib and Rituximab in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
A Study of Venetoclax Plus Ibrutinib and Rituximab in Patients with Relapsed/Refractory Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL).

Our hypothesis is that the combination therapy of BTK (Bruton's tyrosine kinase) Inhibitor Ibrutinib plus Venetoclax and Rituximab in relapsed or refractory DLBCL will have an increased activity with acceptable toxicity. Furthermore, this new novel therapeutic combination will be safe and well tolerated among this patient population.
Relapsed Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: 400mg ABT-199|DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: 800mg ABT-199
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Define maximum tolerated dose and /or recommended phase II dose for the combinations of venetoclax (ABT-199, GDC-0199) plus Ibrutinib (PCI-32765) and rituximab in Relapsed or Refractory DLBCL by assessing the incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs)., 29 days
Incidence of Treatment-emergent Adverse Events., Adverse events will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03., 36 Months|Efficacy as Assessed by Progression Free Survival (PFS), The duration of PFS is defined as the time from the beginning of the first cycle of treatment to the date of progressive disease or death from any cause. PFS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., 36 Months|Efficacy as Assessed by Overall Survival (OS), The duration of OS is defined as the time from the beginning of the first cycle of treatment to the date of death from any cause. OS will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., 36 Months
This is a Phase 1b, single-arm, open-label, single-center study of venetoclax (ABT-199) in combination with ibrutinib and rituximab in Subjects with Relapsed/Refractory DLBCL. The trial consists of a dose-escalation of venetoclax in combination with standard doses of ibrutinib and rituximab. For the dose escalation part of the study, a standard 3+3 design will be utilized. Once the MTD has been established, the dose escalation part will be followed by a dose expansion part in a cohort with a maximum of 24 subjects with DLBCL. The purpose of the dose expansion part is to investigate the efficacy of the combination. Between the dose-escalation and dose-expansion, the maximum number of subjects will be 30.

Cycle length will be 28 days. Venetoclax will be administered orally QD (Once Daily), continuously for 24 cycles. Ibrutinib will be administered orally QD, continuously for 24 cycles. Rituximab will be administered IV per institutional standards. weekly X 4 (Cycle 1); once on Day 1 of cycles 2-6 only, then every other cycle until Cycle 24 (total 18 doses of Rituxan from C1D1), Commercially available rituximab IV will be used.