Evaluation of ex Vivo Drug Combination Optimization Platform in Recurrent High Grade Astrocytic Glioma
This is an interventional, non-randomized, single site study. Brain tumor samples will be collected from patients for organoids generation and subject to panel drugs screening and QPOP analysis to derive the optimal drug combinations for treatment at the time of first high grade astrocytic glioma recurrence. The investigators hypothesize that patient-derived organoids (PDOs) mimic the biological characteristics of high grade astrocytic gliomas and serve as an ideal platform for the evaluation of drug sensitivities, accurately reflecting the patient's therapeutic response to the drugs.
Glioma, Astrocytic
DRUG: QPOP category 1|DRUG: QPOP category 2
Six-month progression-free survival (PFS 6), Defined as the time from the start of study treatment to documented progression of disease or death; PFS6 refers to the percentage of patients who are alive and free of high grade astrocytic glioma progression at 6 months., up to 6 months
Radiological response at follow up MRI, The determination of radiographic response is as per the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria., Up to 6 months|Twelve-month overall survival (OS12), OS is defined as the length of time from the start of study treatment, that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive. OS12 refers to the percentage of patients who are alive at 12 months., Up to 12 months|Number of participant with treatment related haematological and non-haematological toxicities, As defined by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5.0, Up to 6 months
This study aims to test the feasibility of Quadratic Phenotypic Optimization Platform (QPOP) application in high grade astrocytic glioma, by first establishing clinically relevant high grade astrocytic glioma organoid models, followed by the utility of QPOP-derived drug combinations in high grade astrocytic glioma.

The primary purpose of this study is not hypothesis testing, but to assess the feasibility of QPOP-guided therapy for recurrent high grade astrocytic glioma to be used in a larger scale study. Therefore, this study does not have a formal sample size, but rather, a set benchmarks to determine feasibility.

Specific Aim 1: To establish primary and corresponding temozolomide/radiotherapy (TMZ/RT)-resistant high grade astrocytic glioma patient-derived organoids.

Specific Aim 2: To determine the utility of QPOP (Quadratic Phenotypic Optimization Platform)-derived drug combinations in treating recurrent high grade astrocytic glioma.

Specific Aim 3: To evaluate the use of non-invasive imaging tools (Ga68-NEB PET/MRI and DCE-MRI) to track BBB permeability over time in high grade astrocytic glioma patients, and correlate this with pathological biomarkers, therapeutic response determined by follow up standard MRI and clinical outcomes.

Male and female subjects aged 21 years and above with suspected high grade astrocytic glioma planned for surgery/ biopsy followed by adjuvant chemoradiotherapy will be invited to participate in the pre-screening study. Subjects will only be enrolled in the main study if they had pathologically confirmed high grade astrocytic glioma, and received adjuvant treatment comprising standard-of-care therapy with surgery/biopsy followed by temozolomide and radiotherapy.

Pre-screening phase:

In pre-screening phase, patients will be approached for pre-screening consent at the time of first suspected diagnosis of a high grade astrocytic glioma and tumor will be harvested at the time of initial surgery/ biopsy for the generation of PDOs. Once the histological diagnosis of high grade astrocytic glioma is confirmed and the patient is planned for adjuvant temozolomide and radiotherapy, they will undergo baseline standard MRI plus Ga68-NEB PET/MRI and DCE-MRI imaging within one week of the planned radiotherapy simulation date. Patients will then undergo standard-of-care treatment for high grade astrocytic glioma with adjuvant concurrent temozolomide and radiotherapy (TMZ/RT)1, and will be evaluated by the primary oncologist routinely with clinical examination, laboratory tests and regular neuro-imaging. High grade astrocytic glioma organoids will be generated from resected tumour samples and QPOP analyses will be performed to identify specific drug combinations to guide clinical management at the time of first relapse.

Main study:

At the time of documented tumor recurrence, eligible patients will be reassessed for suitability to participate in the main study and approached for their informed consent to enter this phase of the study. During the main study, patients will receive QPOP-guided systemic therapy for the treatment of their relapsed high grade glioma and will be assessed regularly for safety and efficacy of this therapy. In addition, patients will undergo standard MRI plus investigational Ga68-NEB PET/MRI and DCE-MRI imaging prior to and 8 weeks (+/- 1 week) after QPOP-guided systemic therapy. Subsequent to this, radiological assessment of their disease will revert to standard clinical protocols with routine standard MRI imaging.