Combination of Toripalimab and JS004 Therapy for ccRCC
This study is a single center, prospective, randomized controlled phase II clinical trial aimed at examining the efficacy and safety of the combination of toripalimab and JS004 versus standard therapy for second-line treatment of recurrent and metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma patients. The study population consists of recurrent and metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients who have undergone radical operation and have been histologically confirmed as clear cell subtype. The subjects will receive JS004 combined with toripalimab or standard second-line treatment. The main endpoint of this study is the Overall Response Rate (ORR). In addition, we will explore the ORR, Disease Control Rate (DCR), Progression-Free Survival (PFS), and Overall Survival (OS) of different subgroups of tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) presence, location, density, quantity, and maturity in primary tumors. This study is a randomized controlled trial, with a total of 80 participants planned to be included, with regular follow-up for monitoring disease progression and treatment safety. The study will be conducted at Fudan University Cancer Hospital.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: JS004|DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Axitinib|DRUG: Sorafenib
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The number and proportion of subjects with BOR of CR or PR were calculated, and the Clopper-Pearson method was used to estimate and provide the corresponding 95 % confidence interval., 2 years
Disease Control Rate (DCR), The number and proportion of subjects with BOR of CR, PR or SD were calculated, and the Clopper-Pearson method was used to estimate and provide the corresponding 95 % confidence interval., 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The PFS rate and its 95 % CI were estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, the median PFS and its 95 % CI were calculated, and the Kaplan-Meier survival curve was drawn., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the OS rate and its 95 % CI. The median OS and its 95 % CI were calculated, and the Kaplan-Meier survival curve was drawn., 2 years
This study is a single center, prospective, randomized controlled phase II clinical trial aimed at examining the efficacy and safety of the combination of toripalimab and JS004 versus standard therapy for second-line treatment of recurrent and metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma patients. The study population consists of recurrent and metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients who have undergone radical operation and have been histologically confirmed as clear cell subtype. The subjects will receive JS004 combined with toripalimab or standard second-line treatment. The main endpoint of this study is the Overall Response Rate (ORR). In addition, we will explore the ORR, Disease Control Rate (DCR), Progression-Free Survival (PFS), and Overall Survival (OS) of different subgroups of tertiary lymphoid structures (TLSs) presence, location, density, quantity, and maturity in primary tumors. This study is a randomized controlled trial, with a total of 80 participants planned to be included, with regular follow-up for monitoring disease progression and treatment safety. The study will be conducted at Fudan University Cancer Hospital.