Safety and Efficacy Trial of Ipilimumab Versus Pemetrexed in Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this trial is to determine whether Ipilimumab will prolong survival when compared to Pemetrexed in subjects with nonsquamous, non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer - Non Small Cell
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Pemetrexed
Overall Survival of Participants During the Study - All Treated Participants, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death. For those participants who did not die by the time the study was terminated and last patient, last visit occurred, OS was censored (+) on the last date the participant was known to be alive. OS is presented below in increasing monthly categories of survival. OS analysis was to be performed when a total of approximately 132 deaths were observed but due to the early termination of the study, statistical analyses were not performed., Date of Randomization to date of death, up to last patient, last visit, approximately 7 months after study started
Number of Participants Who Died Within 30 Days and 31 Days After Last Dose - All Treated Participants, Due to study termination, the categories presented below are deaths occurring within 30 days of last dose and deaths occurring within 32 days of last dose. If the study had not been terminated early, the categories presented would have been 30 days and 90 days after last dose., Day 1 of Treatment to Date of Death, up to last patient, last visit, approximately 7 months after study started.|Number of Participants With Deaths, Adverse Events (AEs), Serious AEs (SAEs) and AEs Leading to Discontinuation - All Treated Participants, AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Treatment-related=having certain, probable, possible, or missing relationship to study drug. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4= Potentially Life-threatening or disabling. Participants were evaluated from Day 1 (first day of treatment with study drug) to the date of the last participant, last visit of the study., Day 1 to Date of last patient, last visit, approximately 7 months after study started.
The purpose of this trial is to determine whether Ipilimumab will prolong survival when compared to Pemetrexed in subjects with nonsquamous, non-small cell lung cancer.