Radium Ra 223 With Enzalutamide Compared to Enzalutamide Alone in Men With Metastatic Castration Refractory Prostate Cancer
Study of Radium Ra 223 dichloride with enzalutamide compared to enzalutamide alone in men with metastatic castration refractory prostate cancer
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Radium Ra 223 Dichloride|DRUG: Enzalutamide
Fold Change in Serum N-telopeptides From Baseline, Patients had serum N-telopeptide labs drawn prior to the start of treatment and at the End of Treatment visit or at disease progression, whichever occurred first. The mean and standard deviation of the differences were calculated on a log 2 scale. Fold changes (post/pre) and 95% confidence intervals are reported., From prior to start of treatment to end of treatment or disease progression (approximately 6 months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse Events were assessed from start of Radium Ra 223 Dichloride or Enzalutamide treatment (whichever was started first) through 30 days after the last dose of either drug or until start of a new anti-cancer therapy, whichever came first. Adverse events were assessed using the Common Terminology for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Each event was assigned a grade (1-5), with lower grades indicating milder events. All adverse events were recorded, regardless of attribution to study treatment. Reported below are the number of patients who experienced any grade 3-5 non-hematological AE. A full listing of AEs affecting 5% or more participants are listed in the Adverse Events module of the Results section., From first dose of study treatment to 30 days following last dose (approximately 7 months)
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Progression Free Survival (PFS), Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Progression Free Survival (PFS) is the time during with participants did not experience PSA progression. This is measured from the start of study therapy to the time of PSA progression. PSA progression is defined as a rise in PSA of at least 25% and at least 2 ng/ml from baseline or nadir. Kaplan-Meier methods were used., Up to 2 years (24 months)|Radiographic Progression Free Survival (PFS), Radiographic Progression Free Survival (PFS) is the time during with participants did not experience disease progression based on study imaging. This is measured from the start of study therapy to the time of radiographic progression. Radiographic progression was defined by the Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) criteria, in which soft tissue disease is evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and bone lesions are evaluated separately under PCWG2 criteria. PCWG2 and RECIST 1.1 are established radiographic assessment protocols. Kaplan-Meier methods were used., Up to 2 years (24 months)|Bone Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP) Progression Free Survival (PFS), Bone Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP) Progression Free Survival (PFS) is the time during with participants did not experience Bone ALP progression. This is measured from the start of study therapy to the time of Bone ALP progression. Bone ALP progression defined as a rise in Bone ALP of at least 25% and at least 2 micrograms (mcg)/L from baseline or nadir. Kaplan-Meier methods were used., Up to 2 years (24 months)|Count of Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Responses, Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Responses in participants were categorized based on decrease from baseline: less than 30% (\<30%) decrease (including increases from baseline), greater than or equal to 30% (\>=30%) decrease, greater than or equal to 50% (\>=50%) decrease, and greater than or equal to 90% (\>=90%) decrease. Count of participants in each category are provided, Up to 2 years after start of study treatment|Count of Radiographic Responses, Radiographic Responses in participants were assessed using the Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) criteria. Possible responses include Complete Response (CR) (complete disappearance of all metastatic disease on imaging), Partial Response (PR) (improvement in metastatic disease on imaging), Stable Disease (SD) (neither worsening nor improvement of metastatic disease on imaging), and Progressive Disease (PD) (worsening of metastatic disease on imaging). A count of participants in each category is provided here., Up to 2 years after start of study treatment|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is the time during which participants did not pass away. This is measured from the start of study therapy to the time of death from any cause. Kaplan-Meier methods were used., Up to 40 months
Study of Radium Ra 223 dichloride with enzalutamide compared to enzalutamide alone in men with metastatic castration refractory prostate cancer