A Non-Randomized Study to Evaluate Leg Lymphatic Drainage Associated With Surgical Intervention for Vulvar Cancer
This will be a non-blinded, non-randomized study to further our knowledge of and experience with lymph node surgery. The investigators are interested in documenting and reporting the variations in leg lymphatic drainage sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) with inguinal-femoral lymph node dissection (IFLND). The study will be open at the Winthrop P. Rockefeller Cancer Institute at The University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS). Dr. Pamela Stone, Dr.Alexander Burnett, and Dr. Juan Roman will be responsible for accruing subjects to this study. It will be open to all patients presenting to the Winthrop P. Rockefeller Cancer Institute with vulvar cancer requiring lymph node evaluation for the ipsilateral and/or contralateral groin who have not had prior groin surgery or radiation to the groins. Patients must meet inclusion and exclusion criteria to be enrolled.
Vulvar Cancer
PROCEDURE: Routine Leg edema and groin dissection
Successful Identification of Vulvar Sentinel Lymph Nodes Via Gamma Probe., at time of surgery
This will be a non-blinded, non-randomized study to further our knowledge of and experience with lymph node surgery. The investigators are interested in documenting and reporting the variations in leg lymphatic drainage sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) with inguinal-femoral lymph node dissection (IFLND). The study will be open at the Winthrop P. Rockefeller Cancer Institute at The University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences (UAMS). Dr. Pamela Stone, Dr.Alexander Burnett, and Dr. Juan Roman will be responsible for accruing subjects to this study. It will be open to all patients presenting to the Winthrop P. Rockefeller Cancer Institute with vulvar cancer requiring lymph node evaluation for the ipsilateral and/or contralateral groin who have not had prior groin surgery or radiation to the groins. Patients must meet inclusion and exclusion criteria to be enrolled.