Plasma Glycosaminoglycans as Diagnostic and Prognostic Biomarkers in Surgically Treated Renal Cell Carcinoma
In this study, the investigators profiled plasma glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) in a retrospective consecutive series of patients with a radiographic finding of renal mass referred to primary surgery for renal cell carcinoma (RCC). A control group was formed by measuring plasma GAGs in healthy volunteers. The primary endpoints were the specificity and sensitivity of plasma GAGs in the detection of early stage RCC in pre-surgical samples versus healthy individuals. The investigators further analyzed how plasma GAGs varied according to stage, grade, RCC histology, other renal masses, and after surgery. Finally, the investigators estimated whether plasma GAGs could be used for prediction and surveillance of RCC recurrence.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Glycosaminoglycan plasma score
Specificity and sensitivity of plasma GAGs in the detection of low stage RCC in pre-surgical samples versus healthy individuals, 1 month
Pearson correlation coefficient with plasma GAG score in pre-surgical samples and tumor size in cm, 1 month|Shift in plasma GAG score in pre-surgical samples between locally-advanced or advanced vs. localized RCC, The shift is the absolute difference plasma GAG score, which is measured in arbitrary units in the range 0 to +Inf with higher values associated with RCC versus healthy status., 1 month|Shift in plasma GAG score in pre-surgical samples between Fuhrman Nuclear Grade 3+ vs. 2 in clear cell RCC., The shift is the absolute difference plasma GAG score, which is measured in arbitrary units in the range 0 to +Inf with higher values associated with RCC versus healthy status., 1 month|Shift in plasma GAG score in pre-surgical samples between clear cell vs. non-clear cell RCC, The shift is the absolute difference plasma GAG score, which is measured in arbitrary units in the range 0 to +Inf with higher values associated with RCC versus healthy status., 1 month|Hazard ratio of plasma GAG score dichotomized in "Low" vs. "High" score in pre-surgical samples for overall survival in RCC, The dichotomized plasma GAG score is a categorical binary variable based on a post-hoc cut-off value for the plasma GAG score, which is measured in arbitrary units in the range 0 to +Inf with higher values associated with RCC versus healthy status., 53 months|Hazard ratio of plasma GAG score dichotomized in "Low" vs. "High" score in pre-surgical samples for metastatic recurrence-free survival in RCC, The dichotomized plasma GAG score is a categorical binary variable based on a post-hoc cut-off value for the plasma GAG score, which is measured in arbitrary units in the range 0 to +Inf with higher values associated with RCC versus healthy status., 53 months
In this study, the investigators profiled plasma glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) in a retrospective consecutive series of patients with a radiographic finding of renal mass referred to primary surgery for renal cell carcinoma (RCC). A control group was formed by measuring plasma GAGs in healthy volunteers. The primary endpoints were the specificity and sensitivity of plasma GAGs in the detection of early stage RCC in pre-surgical samples versus healthy individuals. The investigators further analyzed how plasma GAGs varied according to stage, grade, RCC histology, other renal masses, and after surgery. Finally, the investigators estimated whether plasma GAGs could be used for prediction and surveillance of RCC recurrence.