Impact of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy for Insomnia on Endocrine Therapy Adherence
The aim of this study is to investigate the impact of cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia on adherence to endocrine therapy medication in breast cancer survivors.
Insomnia|Breast Cancer|Adherence, Medication|Quality of Life|Survivorship
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia
Endocrine therapy adherence, Primary outcome will be self-reported adherence to endocrine therapy medication, measured using the Medication Adherence Report Scale (MARS-5). Items are scored from 1-5. Responses are summed to create a total ranging from 1-20, with higher scores indicating better adherence., 12 weeks
Insomnia symptoms, Severity of insomnia symptoms, measured using the Sleep Condition Indicator. Items are scored from 0-4. Responses are summed to create a total score ranging from 0-32, with higher scores meaning better sleep., 12 weeks|Depressive symptoms, Measured using the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). Items are scored from 0-3. Responses are summed to create a total score ranging from 0-27, with higher scores meaning more severe depressive symptoms., 12 weeks|Anxiety symptoms, Measured using the Generalised Anxiety Disorder Assessment (GAD-7). Items are scored from 0-3. Responses are summed to create a total score ranging from 0-21, with higher scores meaning more severe anxiety., 12 weeks|Fatigue, Measured using the Flinders Fatigue Scale (FFS). This measure includes 7 items. Six items are scored from 0-4, whereas item 5 includes a checklist which is scored from 0-7. Responses are summed to create a total score of 0-31., 12 weeks|Musculoskeletal pain, Measured using musculoskeletal subscale of Breast Cancer Eight Symptom Scale. This subscale includes 3 items, scored from 1-3. Scores are summed, multiplied by the number of items in the subscale, and then divided by the number of questions answered, with higher scores indicating worse symptoms., 12 weeks|Vasomotor symptoms, Measured using vasomotor subscale of Breast Cancer Eight Symptom Scale. This subscale includes 3 items, scored from 1-3. Scores are summed, multiplied by the number of items in the subscale, and then divided by the number of questions answered, with higher scores indicating worse symptoms., 12 weeks|Sleep efficiency, The proportion of time spent in bed which is spent sleeping, measured using Consensus sleep diary. This calculated by dividing the time spent sleeping by time spent in bed, then multiplying this by 100 to generate time spent sleeping as a % of time in bed., 12 weeks|Total sleep time, Time spent asleep, measured using Consensus sleep diary., 12 weeks|Sleep onset latency, Time taken from getting into bed to falling asleep, measured using Consensus sleep diary., 12 weeks|Wake after sleep onset, Amount of time spent awake after initially falling asleep, measured using Consensus sleep diary. This is calculated by adding up the length of all night-time awakenings to create a total in minutes., 12 weeks
Approximately 70% of breast cancer cases are hormone-receptor positive, therefore treatable with endocrine therapy medication. When taken as prescribed, this is effective in reducing the risk of breast cancer recurrence following primary treatment. However, research indicates that nonadherence (not taking medication as prescribed, whether due to forgetfulness or deliberately missing a dose) is an issue, with side effects being a consistent predictor of nonadherence. Sleep problems are one of the most common endocrine therapy side effects. The aim of this study is to explore the influence of cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) on endocrine therapy adherence in breast cancer survivors.

Participants will be randomised to 1 of 2 groups: intervention, or waitlist control. Both groups will complete measures of sleep and other endocrine therapy side effects (depression, anxiety, fatigue, musculoskeletal pain, and vasomotor symptoms) at baseline, post-intervention, and 12-week post-randomisation follow-up. Following randomisation, the intervention group will receive 4 weekly group CBT-I sessions remotely through videoconferencing, whereas waitlist control participants will receive the intervention after 12 weeks, once all measures are completed.

Primary outcome will be self-reported endocrine therapy adherence, with secondary outcomes including insomnia symptoms and other endocrine therapy side effects.