Venetoclax + Azacitidine vs. Induction Chemotherapy in AML
This research is being done to assess the therapeutic activity of a promising combination (azacitidine and venetoclax) versus conventional cytotoxic chemotherapy in induction-eligible patients with acute myeloid leukemia.

This study involves the following:

* Venetoclax and azacitidine (investigational combination)
* Cytarabine and idarubicin or daunorubicin (per standard of care) or Liposomal daunorubicin and cytarabine (per standard of care)
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Idarubicin|DRUG: Daunorubicin|DRUG: Liposomal daunorubicin and cytarabine|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Azacitidine
Event free survival, Primary endpoint is event-free-survival of patients treated with venetoclax and azacitidine compared to patients treated with standard induction with either 7+3 regimen or liposomal daunorubicin and cytarabine

Events are described in the protocol and will include

* Progressive Disease as defined above
* Any change in therapy due to leukemic persistence.
* Transition to hospice
* Relapse following CR, CRi, or CRh
* Any death

Assessments of differences in EFS between the randomized arms will be made with the log-rank test; modeling will employ the Cox proportional hazards model. We also plan to assess the difference in estimated EFS at one year, using Kaplan-Meier estimates with standard deviation calculated by Greenwood's formula.

EFS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. EFS will be assessed with the log-rank test, and cox proportional hazards model when appropriate., From the time from randomization to time for up to 3 years, per protocol.
Rate of response, Evaluated overall and separately for patients with primary and secondary AML, comparisons will be based on the Fisher exact test.

CR and CRi will be assessed. Study also includes CRh as a possible response, CRh aims to describe marrow blast clearance and evidence of partial hematologic recovery not captured by current CR or CRi, criteria., From the time from randomization to time for up to 6 months.|Treatment-related toxicity, Assessed using CTCAE 5, Enrollment to end of treatment duration for up to 12 months.|Rate of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) negativity, Assessed by flow cytometry and next-generation sequencing, From time of enrollment until up to the first 6 months.|30-day mortality, Analyzed using the Kaplan Meier method., From the time of start of therapy until through the first 30 days.|60-day mortality, Analyzed using the Kaplan Meier method., From the time of start of therapy until through the first 60 days.|Overall survival (OS), Survival will be summarized using the method of Kaplan Meier, and assessed using the log rank test and Cox proportional hazards when appropriate., Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive, or for up to 3 years.|Rate of stem cell transplantation (SCT) following induction, The proportion of patients that receive a hematopoietic stem cell transplant following induction therapy or consolidation/continuation therapy., From time of enrollment until up to 3 years following start of treatment.|Patient reported quality of life (QOL), To compare quality of life between the two groups using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Leukemia (FACT-Leuk). the FACT-Leukemia ranges from 0-176 with higher scores indicating better quality of life, up to one year|Patient-reported depression symptoms, To compare depression symptoms between the two groups using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS-Depression). the HADS-depression ranges from 0 (no distress) to 21 (maximum distress) with higher scores indicating worse depression symptoms, up to one year|Patient-reported anxiety symptoms, To compare anxiety symptoms between the two groups using the Hospital Anxieyt and Depression Scale (HADS-Anxiety). the HADS-Anxiety ranges from 0 (no distress) to 21 (maximum distress) with higher scores indicating worse anxiety symptoms, up to one year|Patient-reported symptom burden, To compare symptom burden between the two groups using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS-revised). ESAS ranges from 0-100 with higher scores indicating worse symptom burden, up to one year|Patient-reported post-traumatic stress symptoms, To compare post-traumatic stress (PTSD) symptoms between the two groups using the PTSD-Checklist-Civilian Version. The PTSD-Checklist ranges from 17-85 with higher scores indicating worse PTSD symptoms, up to one year|Health care utilization - hospitalizations, To compare number of hospitalizations between the two groups using linear regression (and adjusting for any potential imbalances between the groups, up to 1 year|Health care utilization - days alive and out of the hospital, To compare days alive and out of the hospital between the two groups using linear regression (and adjusting for any potential imbalances between the groups), up to 1 year|Health care utilization - Intensive care unit admissions, To compare intensive care unit admissions (yes vs. no) between the two groups using logistic regression (and adjusting for any potential imbalances between the groups), up to 1 year|Cost of care, To compare cost of care between the two groups using parametric and non-parametric tests based on distribution of the data, up to 1 year|Incidence of neutropenic infections, Number of patients that experience neutropenic fever during induction cycles (up to 2 cycles)., Up to 8 weeks|100-Day post-transplant mortality, Assessed using the Kaplan Meier method, From date of transplantation through 100 days following transplantation.|Incidence of grade 3 or greater acute graft versus host disease (GVHD), Assessed among patients that receive HSCT following induction., Patients that receive a SCT will be followed post-SCT through up to 100 days.
This is an open-label, multicenter, phase II randomized clinical trial to compare the therapeutic activity of conventional induction chemotherapy (7+3 regimen or liposomal daunorubicin and cytarabine) to the combination of venetoclax and azacitidine among fit, traditionally induction-eligible adults with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the combinations of liposomal daunorubicin and cytarabine as well as cytarabine and idarubicin or daunorubicin as treatment options for acute myeloid leukemia (AML)

The FDA has approved the combination of venetoclax and azacitidine for people with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) that are over the age of 75 or who have comorbidities that preclude intensive induction chemotherapy.

Venetoclax may interact with BCL-2 (a protein that initiates tumor growth, disease progression, and drug resistance) and inhibit BLC-2 which can lead to cancer cell death. Azacitidine may cause cell death in rapidly dividing cells, which may lead to cancer cell death since cancer cells do not grow at a normal rate. Induction Chemotherapy which includes the drugs idarubicin or daunorubicin, cytarabine, and liposomal daunorubicin and cytarabine is the standard of care chemotherapy treatment for someone with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment, including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment for as long as they and their doctor believe they are benefitting from the study drugs. Participants will then be followed for 3 years or until they withdraw their consent to be contacted.

It is expected that about 172 people will take part in this research study.

AbbVie, a biopharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing funding for the study, including one of the study drugs.