AURORAX-0087A: GAG Scores for Surveillance of Recurrence in Leibovich Points ≥5 Non-metastatic ccRCC
AUR87A is an observational prospective multicenter diagnostics test cohort study for detection of renal cell carcinoma recurrence as determined by the reference standard, which is imaging using computed tomography (CT) of the chest and abdomen at defined intervals after primary surgery.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: GAG score
Sensitivity and specificity of GAG recurrence, Sensitivity and specificity of GAG recurrence to LP≥5 ccRCC radiological or histologically verified recurrence with a minimum follow-up time of 12 months, minimum follow-up of 12 months
Absolute and relative risk increase (ARI/RRI) of radiological recurrence, Absolute and relative risk increase (ARI/RRI) of radiological recurrence in patients with GAG recurrence versus no GAG recurrence, within 6 months since last GAG score evaluation|Recurrence-free survival (RFS), Recurrence-free survival (RFS) in the LP≥5 ccRCC for GAG recurrence vs. no GAG recurrence with a minimum follow-up time of 12 months, minimum follow-up of 12 months|Positive and negative predictive value (PPV/NPV) of GAG recurrence, Positive and negative predictive value (PPV/NPV) of GAG recurrence to LP ≥5 ccRCC radiological recurrence, minimum follow-up of 12 months|Area under the receiver-operating-characteristic curve (AUC) of GAG scores, Area under the receiver-operating-characteristic curve (AUC) of GAG scores to LP ≥5 ccRCC radiological recurrence, minimum follow-up of 12 months|RFS, overall survival (OS) and cancer specific survival (CSS), RFS, overall survival (OS) and cancer specific survival (CSS) in patients with GAG recurrence versus no GAG recurrence, follow-up time of 2 years and 5 years respectively after primary surgery|Concordance-index (C-index) of preoperative GAG scores, Concordance-index (C-index) of preoperative GAG scores versus risk nomograms for RFS and for CSS, follow-up time of 2 years and 5 years respectively after primary surgery|Lead-time GAG vs. radiological recurrence among true positives, Lead-time GAG vs. radiological recurrence among true positives, minimum follow-up of 12 months
Non-metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) recur in \~20% of cases within 5 years after radical surgery. Current postoperative follow-up protocols, being schematic and at best based on risk of recurrence scores, are sub-optimal for early detection of recurrences which could potentially be available for curative management. Blood and urine collected glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) are promising novel class of biomarkers from which a new diagnostic test based on so called GAG scores has been developed. GAG scores have accurately distinguished localized/locally-advanced and advanced RCC from healthy subjects.

AUR87A features an adaptive design. The primary endpoint analysis is conducted when 30 events (i.e. recurrences) are reached - expected at 140 patients with a minimum follow-up of 12 months (cohort 1). An interim analysis at 15 events is conducted to verify whether the sensitivity and specificity estimates are in line with the study assumptions. In case of futility, the GAG scores formulations and/or cut-offs are optimized based on data from cohort 1. The primary endpoints are then validated on a second independent cohort, powered depending on the results from cohort 1. This second cohort is estimated in 140 patients (cohort 2). In case of non-futility, cohort 2 may be used as external validation.

AUR87A will prospectively enroll an estimated 280 non-metastatic ccRCC patients curatively treated with surgery (partial or radical nephrectomy). Patients are followed-up longitudinally using GAG scores in blood and urine every 3 months after surgery, alongside the current standard follow-up protocol, i.e. imaging, as reference standard.

The hypothesis of AUR87A is that postoperative increase of the GAG scores, so called "GAG recurrence ", can predict or detect recurrence at an earlier time-point compared to the reference standard, referred to as "radiological recurrence", and thereby improve the clinical utility of current follow-up protocols.