Assessment of Safety and Therapeutic Efficacy of Promitil in Combination With Folfox in Patients With GI Malignancies
This single center, Phase 1b, prospective, dose limiting toxicity (DLT)-clearing study, will assess the safety and efficacy of intravenously administered PROMITIL in combination with FOLFOX in cancer patients with inoperable, locally advanced or metastatic GI solid tumors.

Based on previous clinical results, we hypothesized that the addition of PROMITIL to FOLFOX, a treatment protocol consisting of oxaliplatin and fluoropyrimidine and commonly used to treat gastrointestinal (GI) malignancies, may enhance the overall efficacy of this combination regimen while maintain a reasonable safety profile.
Cancer|Gastro-Intestinal Intraepithelial Neoplasia
DRUG: Promitil
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, The incidence FOLFOX and characteristics of adverse events associated with the PROMITIL-combination treatment, 12 weeks|Report Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Dose clearance of PROMITIL in combination therapy with FOLFOX at week 8, 8 weeks|Evaluate Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]+ stable disease \[SD\]), according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, at 11-12 weeks, 12 weeks
Measurement of Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS), measured in weeks from time of first dose of PROMITIL until PD, 24 weeks|Measure Overall survival, Overall survival, measured in weeks from start of study treatment until death due to any cause, 52 weeks|Plasma MLP level after Promitil infusion, Pharmacokinetic of PROMITIL when administered along with FOLFOX, as measured in cycles 1 and 3, 10 weeks
Each patient will undergo screening, conducted up to 21 days before start of treatment, and receive 3 cycles of PROMITIL treatment, administered at four-week intervals, in combination with FOLFOX, administered at two-week intervals. Thereafter, patients may continue treatment with FOLFOX only, or with another regime at the investigator's discretion and will be followed up until death. Patients will be successively assigned, in order of accrual, to be concomitantly treated with PROMITIL and FOLFOX, at doses of PROMITIL meant to clear a dose of this combination treatment from DLT. Six patients will be treated with an initial DLT-clearing dose (Cohort 1). PROMITIL dose escalation from Cohort 1 to Cohort 2 will be authorized after 5 or 6 Cohort 1 patients complete their first two cycles of combination treatment with up to 1 DLT event reported for all 6 treated patients. If 2 or more Cohort 1 patients suffer from a DLT event in the first two cycles of treatment, 6 patients will be enrolled to Cohort -1 and treated with one dose level lower of PROMITIL. If 2 or more DLT events occur in Cohorts 2 or -1, the study will be discontinued for these patients and only patients in Cohort 1 will complete the study as planned. In any case, the total number of evaluable patients in the DLT-clearing phase will be no more than 12.