Gemcitabine Hydrochloride and Docetaxel With or Without Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Advanced or Recurrent Uterine Leiomyosarcoma
This randomized phase III trial is studying gemcitabine hydrochloride, docetaxel, and bevacizumab to see how well they work compared with gemcitabine hydrochloride, docetaxel, and a placebo in treating patients with advanced or recurrent uterine leiomyosarcoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride and docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether gemcitabine hydrochloride and docetaxel are more effective when given with or without bevacizumab in treating uterine leiomyosarcoma.
Recurrent Uterine Corpus Sarcoma|Stage IIIA Uterine Sarcoma|Stage IIIB Uterine Sarcoma|Stage IIIC Uterine Sarcoma|Stage IVA Uterine Sarcoma|Stage IVB Uterine Sarcoma|Uterine Corpus Leiomyosarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: Pegfilgrastim|OTHER: Placebo
Progression-free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and documentation of disease progression (RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause. Patients still alive and disease free at the last followup were censored on the date of last CT Scan.

Assessed with a log-rank test stratified by whether the patient had whole pelvic radiotherapy prior to starting the study treatment. The product-limit method will be used to estimate the cumulative distribution of PFS for the patients assigned to each treatment group., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and death from any cause. Patients still alive at the last followup were censored on the date of last CT Scan.

The product-limit method will be used to estimate the cumulative distribution of overall survival times for the patients assigned to each treatment group., Up to 5 years|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Effects as Assessed by the CTCAE Version 4.0, Count of participants with Adverse events (AEs) that are CTCAE Grade 3 or worse.

Please refer to the adverse event reporting for more detail., Up to 5 years|Objective Response Rate as Measured by RECIST 1.1 Criteria, "Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the addition of bevacizumab to fixed-dose rate gemcitabine-docetaxel reduces the progression-free survival (PFS) event rate when compared to gemcitabine-docetaxel plus placebo in patients with advanced or recurrent uterine leiomyosarcoma (LMS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate, as measured by RECIST, of patients treated with fixed-dose rate gemcitabine-docetaxel with bevacizumab, compared with the objective response rate of patients treated with fixed-dose rate gemcitabine-docetaxel with placebo.

II. To determine if the addition of bevacizumab to the combination of gemcitabine and docetaxel increases overall survival in patients with advanced or recurrent uterine LMS.

III. To determine the toxicity profile of fixed-dose rate gemcitabine-docetaxel with and without bevacizumab in this patient population.

IV. To bank formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor tissue for research.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior whole-pelvic radiotherapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive a placebo IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 8, and docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 8. Patients also receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 9-15 or pegfilgrastim SC on day 9 or 10.

ARM II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 8, and docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 8. Patients also receive filgrastim SC on days 9-15 or pegfilgrastim SC on day 9 or 10.

In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.