Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound in Predicting Treatment Response in Patients With Liver Cancer Receiving Transarterial Chemoembolization With Drug Eluting Beads
This pilot clinical trial compares the use of contrast-enhanced ultrasound to contrast-enhanced magnetic response imaging (MRI), the current clinical standard, in predicting treatment response in patients with liver cancer receiving transarterial chemoembolization with drug eluting beads. Comparing results of diagnostic procedures before and after transarterial chemoembolization may help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment and help plan the best treatment. It is not yet known if contrast-enhanced ultrasound works better than contrast-enhanced MRI in predicting treatment response in patients with liver cancer.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Perflutren Lipid Microspheres|DEVICE: Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound Imaging|DEVICE: Contrast-enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Ability of contrast-enhanced ultrasound to predict response to transarterial chemoembolization with drug eluting beads, Contrast-enhanced ultrasound of hepatocellular carcinomas at one month will be evaluated to see if it correlates with the clinical evaluation standard of a contrast-enhanced MRI at one month. Sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value will be calculated for the contrast-enhanced ultrasound exam. Correlations between these findings and both contrast-enhanced MRI findings and patient outcomes will be compared using the Fisher exact test. Inter- and intra-observer variability will also be calculated., Up to 1 month after transarterial chemoembolization
Change in quantitative blood flow parameters, Whether changes in quantitative blood flow parameters relative to baseline correlate with effective embolization will be established., Baseline to up to 1 month after transarterial chemoembolization|Quantitative parameters of tumor vascularity, Baseline to up to 1 month after transarterial chemoembolization|Changes in perfusion, Baseline to up to 1 month after transarterial chemoembolization|Changes in contrast fill time, Baseline to up to 1 month after transarterial chemoembolization
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate if contrast-enhanced ultrasound of hepatocellular carcinomas at one to two weeks and one month correlate with the clinical evaluation standard of a contrast-enhanced MRI at one month (the current clinical standard) in patients who have undergone transarterial chemoembolization with drug eluting beads.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish whether changes in quantitative blood flow parameters relative to baseline correlate with effective embolization.