A Study of Trastuzumab Emtansine in Comparison With Treatment of Physician's Choice in Participants With HER2-positive Breast Cancer Who Have Received at Least Two Prior Regimens of HER2-directed Therapy
This randomized, multicenter, 2-arm, open-label study (TH3RESA) will evaluate the efficacy and safety of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) in comparison with treatment of the physician's choice in participants with metastatic or unresectable locally advanced/recurrent human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer. Eligible participants will be randomized to receive either trastuzumab emtansine 3.6 mg/kg intravenously every 21 days or treatment of the physician's choice. Participants continue to receive study treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. This study is also known under Roche study protocol number BO25734.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab emtansine|DRUG: Treatment of physician's choice
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression by investigator assessment using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Progression-free survival was a co-primary endpoint., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 11 Feb 2013 (up to 2 years)|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Overall survival was a co-primary endpoint., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 11 Feb 2013 (up to 2 years)
Percentage of Participants With an Objective Response, An objective response was defined as a complete or partial response determined on 2 consecutive occasions ≥ 4 weeks apart using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Complete response was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must be \< 10 mm on the short axis. Partial response was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum. Participants who had no post-baseline tumor assessment were counted as non-responders., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 11 Feb 2013 (up to 2 years)|Duration of the Objective Response, Duration of the objective response was defined as the time from the first tumor assessment that was judged to indicate that the patient had an objective response to the time of first documented disease progression using RECIST v1.1 per investigator assessment or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 11 Feb 2013 (up to 2 years)|6-month and 1-year Survival, 6-month and 1-year survival were defined as the percentage of participants who were alive at 6 months and 1 year, respectively, as estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 11 Feb 2013 (up to 2 years)|Time to Pain Symptom Progression, Time to pain symptom progression was defined as the time from randomization to the first documentation of an increase in narcotic use and/or a 10 point increase from Baseline in the pain score as measured by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of Life Questionnaire for patients with bone metastases (EORTC QLQ-BM22). The EORTC QLQ-BM22 assesses the symptoms of bone metastases using 22 items: 5 items for sites of pain, 3 pain characteristics, 8 functional interference aspects, and 6 psychosocial aspects. The pain score was derived from the 3 pain characteristic items. Each item was rated on a 4-point scale, where 1=Not at all to 4=Very much. The pain score was the sum of the 3 pain characteristic scores and was normalized to a scale of 0 to 100. A higher score indicates greater pain., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 11 Feb 2013 (up to 2 years)|Change From Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-BM22 Pain Score on Day 1 of Each Cycle, The EORTC QLQ-BM22 assesses the symptoms of bone metastases using 22 items: 5 items for sites of pain, 3 pain characteristics, 8 functional interference aspects, and 6 psychosocial aspects. The pain score was derived from the 3 pain characteristic items. Each item was rated on a 4-point scale, where 1=Not at all to 4=Very much. The pain score was the sum of the 3 pain characteristic scores and was normalized to a scale of 0 to 100. A higher score indicates greater pain. A negative change score indicates improvement., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 11 Feb 2013 (up to 2 years)|Overall Survival (Final Analysis), Overall survival was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 13 Feb 2015 (up to 4 years)|6-month and 1-year Survival (Final Analysis), 6-month and 1-year survival were defined as the percentage of participants who were alive at 6 months and 1 year, respectively, as estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., Baseline to the clinical cut-off date of 13 Feb 2015 (up to 4 years)
This randomized, multicenter, 2-arm, open-label study (TH3RESA) will evaluate the efficacy and safety of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) in comparison with treatment of the physician's choice in participants with metastatic or unresectable locally advanced/recurrent human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer. Eligible participants will be randomized to receive either trastuzumab emtansine 3.6 mg/kg intravenously every 21 days or treatment of the physician's choice. Participants continue to receive study treatment until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. This study is also known under Roche study protocol number BO25734.