3D Printed Oral Stents for Patients With Head and Neck Cancer Receiving Radiation Therapy
This trial studies how a customized 3D-printed oral stent compares to a standard stent made by a dentist for use in imaging scans in patients with head and neck cancer receiving radiation therapy. Oral stents are designed to help prevent radiation-related side effects while receiving radiation therapy. Traditional oral stents are created by dentists, require at least 2 separate appointments, and may not be as cost-effective. A customized, 3D-printed oral stent may perform as well as a standard stent made by a dentist and have a significantly shorter turnaround to device delivery.
Malignant Head and Neck Neoplasm
OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DEVICE: Stent Device
To evaluate whether a customized 3 dimensional (3D) printed oral stent achieves non-inferior levels of patient reported outcomes as the standard dental-fabricated oral stents at the time prior to starting treatment., The patient will fill out a questionnaire that measures the form and fit of the 3D printed oral stent at specified time points, and this measurement will be compared with a standard stent. Score ranges(0-10) 0 None at all-10 As bad as you can imagine., up to 2 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether a customized 3 dimensional (3D) printed oral stent achieves non-inferior levels of patient reported outcomes as the standard dental-fabricated oral stents at the time prior to starting treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the performance of the 3D stent on imaging parameters (i.e. mandibular and soft tissue displacement) for degree of normal tissue sparing.

II. Evaluate the levels of patient reported outcomes after patients have developed side effects from radiation treatment.

III. To evaluate the commercially available TruGuard oral cavity positioning system.

OUTLINE:

Patients wear a customized 3D printed oral stent over 5-10 minutes in the supine position at the time of radiation simulation, before starting radiation therapy, and in the 3rd to 5th week of radiation therapy. Patients may also optionally wear the commercially-made stent called TruGuard at these timepoints.