Multimodal Pain Study in Free Flap Patients
This study will be fashioned as a randomized, prospective study comparing Pain Management Arm A and Pain Management Arm B. Arm A will have scheduled Tylenol with opioids available as needed (PRN) in the peri-operative period. Arm B will undergo scheduled Gabapentin, Ketorolac and Tylenol as well as the Anesthesiology team managing regional nerve blocks, with opioids available PRN in the peri-operative period. The amount of pain medication used by all patients will be recorded as well as pain scores documented on a pain scale (0-10 with 0 indicating no pain and 10 indicating worst pain ever) as well as ABC pain scale throughout the patients' hospital stay. Morphine equivalents for the opioids will be calculated for each arm while observing pain scores. Then, the investigators will compare these two groups to see if there is a difference in opioid pain medication used. The study team's hypothesis is that the use of Gabapentin, Ketorolac, and Tylenol in combination will significantly reduce (at least 30% of Mean Morphine Equivalents - MME) the use of opioid medication for patients undergoing head and neck free flap reconstruction with similar to improved pain scores.
Head and Neck Cancer|Analgesia
DRUG: Tylenol|DRUG: Oxycodone|DRUG: Morphine|DRUG: Gabapentin|DRUG: toradol|DRUG: Bupivacaine
Mean morphine equivalents for Arm A, Mean morphine equivalents will be calculated after converting all opioids to morphine equivalents and then averaging them., During the study period of approximately 1 year|Mean morphine equivalents for Arm B, Mean morphine equivalents will be calculated after converting all opioids to morphine equivalents and then averaging them., During the study period of approximately 1 year
Length of stay, Length of stay in days, Analyze the first 7 post-operative days but take note of how long they stayed.|Post-operative complications, Monitor chart/EMR for bleeding, acute kidney injury, etc., Analyze the first 7 post-operative days|Pain assessment for patients, Pain assessment will occur with nurses providing patient a 0-10 pain scale (i.e. 0 being the lowest and 10 being the greatest amount of pain) named the Defense Veterans Pain Rating Scale for each nursing assessment in order to know which pain medications to administer., Nurses will use the DVPRS for each assessment while the patient is hospitalized, typically for seven days. Nursing assessments typically are Q2H-Q4H.|Pain assessment for patients, There is another pain assessment scale that will be distributed once daily to the patients to assess their pain and how it is affecting their functionality. This pain assessment/survey is named the ABC pain scale, which is a qualitative pain assessment., The ABC pain scale will be given once daily for the patient to fill out for the first seven days.
This study will be fashioned as a randomized, prospective study comparing Pain Management Arm A and Pain Management Arm B. Arm A will have scheduled Tylenol with opioids available as needed (PRN) in the peri-operative period. Arm B will undergo scheduled Gabapentin, Ketorolac and Tylenol as well as the Anesthesiology team managing regional nerve blocks, with opioids available PRN in the peri-operative period. The amount of pain medication used by all patients will be recorded as well as pain scores documented on a pain scale (0-10 with 0 indicating no pain and 10 indicating worst pain ever) as well as ABC pain scale throughout the patients' hospital stay. Morphine equivalents for the opioids will be calculated for each arm while observing pain scores. Then, the investigators will compare these two groups to see if there is a difference in opioid pain medication used. The study team's hypothesis is that the use of Gabapentin, Ketorolac, and Tylenol in combination will significantly reduce (at least 30% of Mean Morphine Equivalents - MME) the use of opioid medication for patients undergoing head and neck free flap reconstruction with similar to improved pain scores.