Relating Clinical Outcomes in Multiple Myeloma to Personal Assessment of Genetic Profile
The primary objective of this observational study is to identify the molecular profiles and clinical characteristics that define subsets of myeloma patients during the course of the disease.
Multiple Myeloma
Molecular profiles and clinical characteristics that define subsets of myeloma patients at initial diagnosis and at relapse of disease., Standard clinical and laboratory assessments. Genomic tests (DNA and RNA sequencing, etc.) on bone marrow aspirates obtained at baseline, suspected complete response, and relapse/progression., Baseline to 8 years.
Response rates, IMWG criteria: stringent complete response, complete response, very good partial response, partial response, no response., Up to one year after baseline.|Survival rates, Progression-free survival and overall survival, Five to eight years after baseline|Bone disease assessed radiographically, Baseline and during five to eight years of follow-up|Health-related quality of life, EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-MY20, Baseline and during five to eight years of follow-up|Resource utilization, Hospitalizations and ER visits, Baseline and during five to eight years of follow-up|Severe adverse events, Severe/CTCAE grade 3-4 adverse events (checklist), Five to eight years
Understanding the molecular basis of cancer is a critical step toward devising the most effective treatment of the patient as an individual. The promise of molecular targeted therapeutics and personalized cancer care has been demonstrated in breast and lung cancer and chronic myeloid leukemia. However, similar examples of success in multiple myeloma have not been achieved despite extensive basic research as well as clinical advances. What is well understood is that myeloma is a heterogeneous disease with great genetic and epigenetic complexity.22, 23 Therefore, there remains a critical need to understand myeloma patient biology in the context of current patient care.24 The objective of this longitudinal study is to identify patient subgroups and phenotypes defined by molecular profiling and clinical features. These profiles will enable a better understanding of mechanisms of disease, drug response and patient relapse. Ultimately the study is intended to drive successful drug development and patient care in multiple myeloma.