A Randomized, Controlled, Multi-center, Phase III Clinical Study to Investigate Recombinant Humanized PD-1 Monoclonal Antibody Injection (JS001) Versus Dacarbazine as the 1st-line Therapy for Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma
This is one phase III, randomized, open-label study in comparison of JS001 with dacarbazine as the 1st-line therapy for adult (≥18 years) subjects with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. The subjects will be 1:1 randomized and stratified in accordance with acral lentiginous melanoma and M stage (M0vsM1a/M1bvsM1c). Using standard dose and dose interval, the subjects will be given JS001 240mg intravenously, once every two weeks, or dacarbazine 1000mg/m2, d1, intravenously, once every three weeks. One cycle of therapy is 6 weeks (3 doses of JS001 or 2 doses of dacarbazine per cycle).
Metastatic Melanoma|Unresectable Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: JS001 240mg Q2W|DRUG: Dacarbazine 1000mg/m2 Q3W
the progression-free survival (PFS), To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) evaluated by one independent review board of radiological data in systemic treatment-naïve patients with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic melanoma who are treated with JS001 versus dacarbazine., 3 months
objective response rate (ORR), To compare objective response rate (ORR) evaluated by the independent review board of radiological data according to RECIST 1.1 between the two groups;, 2 years|duration of response (DOR), To compare duration of response (DOR) evaluated by the independent review board of radiological data according to RECIST 1.1 between the two groups;, 2 years|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 2 years
1. In the subjects who have clinical benefit evaluated by investigators and tolerate the study treatment, treatment will be considered to give after occurrence of progression defined by RECIST1.1 as evaluated by the initial investigators, these subjects must terminate the treatment when further progression is validated.
2. The subjects in dacarbazine treatment group are allowed to be crossed to receive JS001 after progression of disease; however, they need to be re-evaluated if they meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria.

Subjects need to provide one tumor tissue specimen for archival or one newly acquired biopsy tissue from the site that is previously not irradiated for evaluation of PD-L1 expression status when they participate in the study. The PD-L1 expression status of specimen will be evaluated in the central laboratory using immunohistochemical (IHC) method. Subjects with positive or negative PD-L1 can be enrolled in this study, and the clinical activity in the two subgroups will be evaluated in accordance with the prespecified subgroup analysis.