Nab-Paclitaxel Combined With Gemcitabine Adjuvant Chemotherapy After Radical Resection of Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
In this phase 2 study, we aim to evaluate the effects and safety of combined therapy using nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine chemotherapy for patients after radical resection of Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
Cholangiocarcinoma, Intrahepatic
DRUG: combined therapy using nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine chemotherapy
Disease-free survival, the time from the day after surgery to the recurrence of cancer., 24 months
safety: the potential side effects, the potential side effects, 6 months
overall survival, the time from the day after surgery to death, 24 months
Most patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) are often accompanied by local or distant metastases and lose the opportunity for surgical resection. Surgical resection is the only effective means for long-term survival of patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. However, multiple tumors, lymph node metastasis, and vascular invasion significantly reduced postoperative survival. Most patients will relapse due to less clinical data. The best adjuvant treatment strategy and standard protocol for patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma has not been determined. Current treatment options include chemotherapy based on fluoropyrimidine or gemcitabine. Albumin-bound paclitaxel(nab-paclitaxel) has been used to treat a variety of malignancies such as non-small cell lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, breast cancer, melanoma, ovarian cancer and the like. In the field of pancreatic cancer, studies have confirmed that albumin-bound paclitaxel has synergistic effects with gemcitabine. The combination of gemcitabine alone significantly increased the intratumoral concentration of gemcitabine. Albumin-bound paclitaxel plus gemcitabine is the first choice for first-line treatment of pancreatic cancer, but clinical studies in the field of cholangiocarcinoma are very limited. Based on the same origin of pancreatic and biliary embryos, biological behavior and pathological similarities. Therefore, in this second phase of the study, our aim was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of chemotherapy with nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine in the prevention of postoperative recurrence in patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.