The HealthScore Health Coaching Program
Purpose: The HealthScore Health Coaching Program aims to deliver 6-months of 1:1 home-based health coaching to cancer patients receiving treatment and survivors of any diagnosis at UNC Cancer Hospital. This study hopes to preserve physical function, address unmet physical, nutritional, psychological, social and other needs.

Procedures: This will be done through individualized health coaching, weekly symptom survey administration, monthly supportive care questionnaires, and physical assessments at baseline, 3 months and 6 months.

Participants: All cancer patients with appointments at UNC Cancer Hospitals.
Cancer|Survivorship|Quality of Life|Health Behavior
BEHAVIORAL: Health Coaching
Percent Completion, To provide health coaching services for cancer patients and survivors at UNC through the HealthScore Program, measured by calculating numbers of participants enrolled and completing the six-month HealthScore health coaching intervention each year., 5 years
Change in Physical Function, Change in PROMIS (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) Physical Function 8b on a scale of 0-60.5. Higher scores indicate better physical function., 6 months|Completed coaching phone calls, Percentage of possible coaching phone calls completed, 6 months|Survey Completion, Percentage of possible patient-reported surveys completed, 6 months|Wearable Sensor data, Percentage of possible days using the wearable sensor with evaluable data, 6 months|Unmet Needs, Number of unmet needs addressed while participating in health coaching, 6 months|Change in participant self-efficacy using the Lorgis Self-Efficacy Scale, Magnitude of change in self-efficacy during program participation using the Lorgis Self-efficacy scale. The score is the mean of six items, scored 0-10. Higher scores are better., 6 months
Evaluation and monitoring are used sporadically in routine cancer care, and cancer coaching programs are rare. The potential for these approaches to improve quality of life and clinical outcomes in cancer patients is significant. The HealthScore Health Coaching Program is designed as a way to routinely combine evaluation, monitoring and coaching within a single framework as a six-month intervention for cancer patients or survivors. The primary rationale for the Program is that improvements in physical function, unmet needs identification, and self-efficacy are likely to lead to better patient-centered and overall outcomes for patients and survivors. A secondary rationale is that the framework of the Program and data obtained as part of the Program will facilitate additional quality improvement and research activities to refine the application of evaluation, monitoring and coaching techniques in cancer care. As reimbursement and care delivery in oncology transition to a focus on value and population-based management, the HealthScore Health Coaching Program may provide a model for application to cancer care within and outside UNC. The primary purpose of this study is to provide 6-months of 1:1 home-based health coaching for cancer patients and survivors will improve physical function and address unmet physical, nutritional, psychological, social and other needs which will increase patient and survivor self-efficacy for medical engagement, reduce morbidity, health care utilization, and encourage health lifestyle behaviors.