An Observational Pilot Study Evaluating the Feasibility of Conducting Genome-Wide Association Studies Utilizing Subject Provided Information in Subjects With Locally Recurrent or MBC, MCRC, MNSCLC, RGBM or MRCC Treated With Avastin (Bevacizumab) (InVite)
This pilot, non-interventional, observational, Web-based, prospective cohort study is designed to collect self-reported safety and effectiveness and genetic data from subjects with locally recurrent breast cancer (BC) or metastatic breast cancer (MBC), metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC), metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (MNSCLC), recurrent glioblastoma (RGBM), or metastatic renal cell cancer (MRCC) in the United States who have been previously treated with Avastin (bevacizumab). The cohort will be composed of male and female subjects who have been diagnosed with locally recurrent BC or MBC, MCRC, MNSCLC, RGBM, or MRCC who have received treatment with bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy, which started prior to or up to 31 December 2012. Participants will be self-referred to this study. They will be recruited online via a number of sources, including through the involvement of patient advocacy groups, social media tools, traditional media, physicians, and events to raise awareness of this study. After appropriate informed consent and authorization are obtained, data will be collected directly from subjects in an online survey. Participants will be contacted electronically to complete quarterly follow-up surveys. The follow-up period will be 1 year from responding to the baseline survey. DNA collection will be performed as part of this study. DNA will be extracted from saliva, which will be provided by the subject utilizing a collection kit sent to the participants for at-home use.
Breast Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Glioblastoma|Renal Cell Cancer
Percentage of subjects who complete the survey and who provide evaluable genetic information (DNA), 24 months
Clinical characteristics (current disease status/previous treatments) of subjects participating in this study, 24 months|Demographic distribution (age, sex) of subjects participating in this study, 24 months
This pilot, non-interventional, observational, Web-based, prospective cohort study is designed to collect self-reported safety and effectiveness and genetic data from subjects with locally recurrent breast cancer (BC) or metastatic breast cancer (MBC), metastatic colorectal cancer (MCRC), metastatic non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (MNSCLC), recurrent glioblastoma (RGBM), or metastatic renal cell cancer (MRCC) in the United States who have been previously treated with Avastin (bevacizumab). The cohort will be composed of male and female subjects who have been diagnosed with locally recurrent BC or MBC, MCRC, MNSCLC, RGBM, or MRCC who have received treatment with bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy, which started prior to or up to 31 December 2012. Participants will be self-referred to this study. They will be recruited online via a number of sources, including through the involvement of patient advocacy groups, social media tools, traditional media, physicians, and events to raise awareness of this study. After appropriate informed consent and authorization are obtained, data will be collected directly from subjects in an online survey. Participants will be contacted electronically to complete quarterly follow-up surveys. The follow-up period will be 1 year from responding to the baseline survey. DNA collection will be performed as part of this study. DNA will be extracted from saliva, which will be provided by the subject utilizing a collection kit sent to the participants for at-home use.