Hyperfractionated Dual Equivalent Fractionated Radiation Therapy
This study evaluates the feasibility and safety of a novel method for comparing the effectiveness of hypofractionated versus hyperfractionated radiation therapy in participants with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (R/R DLBCL) undergoing T-cell redirection therapies (CAR T-cell therapy or bispecific antibodies).
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
OTHER: Bridging Radiation Therapy
Feasibility Assessment of Dual Fractionated Radiation Therapy Enrollment and Treatment, The feasibility of the clinical trial's intervention will be assessed based on the ability to enroll and treat at least 5 participants with the proposed dual fractionated radiation therapy, where one half of the tumor receives once daily radiation and the other half receives twice daily radiation. This number is estimated to be sufficient to determine the feasibility of treating a single tumor with different radiation schedules., Approximately one year|Safety analysis of the proposed dual fractionated radiation therapy schema, Safety will be assessed by analyzing the incidence of severe (grade ≥ 3) acute toxicities. The therapy will be considered safe if fewer than 30% of study participants receiving dual fractionated radiation therapy experience these toxicities., Throughout the study, approximately two years
The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility and safety of a novel method to study the relative effectiveness of hypo- vs. hyperfractionated therapy (i.e., once daily vs. twice daily treatment) in patients with R/R DLBCL undergoing T-cell redirection therapies. This trial will serve as proof-of-concept, feasibility, and safety for a novel dual fractionation trial design, treating the same tumor with two fractionation schedules, paving the way for future radiotherapy trial designs and direct comparison of the efficacy of once vs. twice daily treatment. Correlative studies of immune exhaustion will evaluate the mechanistic underpinnings between radiotherapy and the immune environment. Finally, with the use of RefleXion BGRT, investigators will collect PET imaging data to provide the basis for this emerging method for administering bridging radiation in lymphoma.