Alvocidib and Oxaliplatin With or Without Fluorouracil and Leucovorin Calcium in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Germ Cell Tumors
This phase II trial is studying alvocidib and oxaliplatin to see how well they work when given with or without fluorouracil and leucovorin calcium in treating patients with relapsed or refractory germ cell tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as alvocidib, oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and leucovorin calcium, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving alvocidib together with oxaliplatin with or without fluorouracil and leucovorin calcium may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Extragonadal Seminoma|Recurrent Malignant Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Malignant Extragonadal Non-Seminomatous Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Malignant Testicular Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor|Stage III Testicular Cancer|Stage IV Extragonadal Non-Seminomatous Germ Cell Tumor|Stage IV Extragonadal Seminoma|Stage IV Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor
DRUG: Alvocidib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Objective Response Rate, Number of Participants with Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Progression of Disease (POD) Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria" (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI and/or CT: Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for a Partial Response nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progression of Disease (POD); POD, 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, Within 3 courses of treatment
Toxicity, graded using the NCI CTCAE version 4.0.See adverse event section, Up to 4 years|Progression-free Survival, From treatment start until first documented progression or death, assessed up to 4 years|Time to Tumor Response, From treatment start until first documented CR or PR, assessed up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the antitumor efficacy of the combination of flavopiridol and oxaliplatin with or without 5-FU and leucovorin in patients with relapsed or refractory GCT. The necessity of 5-FU and leucovorin to the combination will also be indirectly tested in this study.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To further evaluate the safety of flavopiridol in combination with oxaliplatin with or without 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin in patients with refractory or relapsed GCT.

II. To evaluate the time to tumor response (TTR) and progression-free survival for patients with refractory or relapsed GCT treated with flavopiridol in combination with oxaliplatin with or without 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin.

III. To explore the association between treatment response and p21, p53 and apoptotic markers.

OUTLINE: Patients are initially enrolled in part A (closed to accrual as of 11/15/2010). Depending on response to treatment, additional patients may be enrolled in part B.

PART A (alvocidib and oxaliplatin) (closed to accrual as of 11/15/2010): Patients receive alvocidib IV over 1 hour and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on days 1, 15, and 29. Courses repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PART B (alvocidib and FOLFOX): Patients receive alvocidib IV over 1 hour, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours followed by fluorouracil IV continuously over 48 hours on days 1, 15, and 29. Courses repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Tumor tissue samples may be collected periodically for further laboratory analysis.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4-8 weeks.