PD-1 Antibody Combined With COX Inhibitor in MSI-H/dMMR or High TMB Colorectal Cancer
PD-1(programmed death protein 1)antibody has been to approved in patients with MSI-H/dMMR advanced cancer and has achieved significant efficacy. It is reported that the objective response rate of Pembrolizumab and Nivolumab are 40% and 31.1% in MSI-H/dMMR (microsatellite instability-high/deficiency mismatch repair )colorectal cancer. What's more, most of the patients who had response for PD-1 antibody achieved a long duration of disease control. However, not all patients with MSI-H/dMMR was sensitive to PD-1 antibody despite it is a biomarker for PD-1 antibody treatment. There were about 50-60% of patients with MSI-H/dMMR were insensitive and we don't know why. What's more, it's reported that tumor mutation burden (TMB) may be another biomarker of response to PD-1 therapy. COX (cyclooxygenase)inhibitor has been proved to prevent adenomas in colorectal and it is safe for most of the patients. Preclinical models also showed that COX inhibitor could act with PD-1 antibody in mice and control disease progress. So, this study aims to evaluated efficacy and safety of combination of PD-1 antibody and COX inhibitor in patients with MSI-H/dMMR or high tumor mutation burden colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: PD-1 antibody + cox inhibitor
Response rate, CR(complete response) + PR (partial response)rate will be assessed according to the RECIST version 1.1 guidelines., 6 months
Progression free survival, Time measured from the day of treatment to the date of first documented progression, or death from any cause., 2 years|Overall survival time, Estimated from the date of treatment to death from any cause., 5 years|disease control rate, CR + PR + SD(stable disease) rate will be assessed according to the RECIST version 1.1 guidelines., 6 months|Toxicity assessed using the NCI common toxicity criteria, version 4.0., The grade of toxicity will be assessed using the NCI common toxicity criteria, version 4.0., 2 years|duration of response, Time measured from the day of first documented PR or CR to the date of first documented progression, or death from any cause., 2 years
This is a single arm, phase two study. Eligible patients with advanced MSI-H/dMMR colorectal cancer were assigned to receive BAT1306 plus COX inhibitor. All patients will receive the study regimen every 3 weeks. Chest/abdomen/pelvic CT with IV contrast will be performed to assess clinical response.