Trial of Pembrolizumab in Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
PERSEUS1 is an open-label, single arm, phase II trial evaluating the efficacy of Pembrolizumab in metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients (Part A) with a biomarker enrichment stage (Part B) if efficacy is shown in part A.
Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
To evaluate tumour response, Responses will be defined on the basis of the following outcomes; if any of these occur patients will be considered to have responded:

* Objective response by iRECIST 1.1;or
* CTC count conversion from \>5 to \<5
* PSA decline of ≥50%. Responses will need confirmation by a second consecutive value obtained four or more weeks after the first value indicated a response. Evaluable patients with no confirmed response as defined above will be classified as non-responders. Response will be evaluated 6 months post-trial entry. The last value of PSA, CTC count, CT scan/bone scan/WB-MRI on or up to 28 days before the date of first study treatment will be used as the baseline value for this assessment., 6 months post trial entry
Radiological progression-free survival (rPFS), rPFS will be measured from the date of trial entry to the first occurrence of radiological progression or death from any cause. If no event exists then rPFS will be censored at the last scheduled disease assessment on study., From date of randomisation until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Time to radiological progression, Death from prostate cancer or any other cause without prior radiological evidence of progression will not count as an event. If no event exists, then time to radiological progression will be censored at the last scheduled disease assessment on study or date of disease whichever occurs earlier., From date of randomisation until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Progression free survival, If no event exists, then PFS will be censored at the last scheduled disease assessment on study, From date of randomisation until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Time to PSA progression, PSA progression is defined according to the PCWG3 guidelines and is the date that a ≥ 25% increase and an absolute increase of ≥ 2 ng/mL above the nadir (baseline if no decline) is documented. This must be confirmed by a second consecutive value obtained 4 or more weeks later., From date of randomisation until the date of first documented PSA progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Duration of PSA response, calculated from the time the PSA value first declines by at least 50% of the cycle 1 day 1 (baseline) value (must be confirmed by a second value) until the time there is an increase of 25% of PSA nadir, provided the absolute increase is at least 2 ng/mL. The increase must be confirmed by a second consecutive measurement that is at least 25% above the nadir. If the PSA never shows a 25% increase over the nadir value, then the patient will be assessed at the last PSA measurement. PSA objective response rate (PSA-ORR) is calculated as the proportion of evaluable patients who achieve a PSA response., From date of first decline by at least 50% until the time time there is an increase of 25% of PSA nadir or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Overall survival, Survival time of living patients will be censored on the last date a patient is known to be alive or lost to follow-up., From date of randomisation until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 100 months|Safety and tolerability defined by CTC-AE, V 4.0 criteria., Adverse events will be summarised by grade according to the worst grade experienced. In addition, the most frequently observed AEs will be summarised., From date of randomisation until the end of treatment or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months
Exploratory: • Molecular endpoints from both diagnostic archival FFPE tumour tissue (when available) and fresh mCRPC tumour tissue, PD-1, PDL-1 and PDL-2 expression, From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Exploratory: • Molecular endpoints from both diagnostic archival FFPE tumour tissue (when available) and fresh mCRPC tumour tissue, T-Reg infiltration (CD4+ CD25+ FoxP3+), From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Exploratory: • Molecular endpoints from both diagnostic archival FFPE tumour tissue (when available) and fresh mCRPC tumour tissue, CD3, CD8, lymphocyte infiltration, From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Exploratory: • Molecular endpoints from both diagnostic archival FFPE tumour tissue (when available) and fresh mCRPC tumour tissue, Presence of mismatch repair defect as determined by immunohistochemistry or microsatellite instability (MSI)., From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Exploratory: • Molecular endpoints from both diagnostic archival FFPE tumour tissue (when available) and fresh mCRPC tumour tissue, Mutational load (number of mutations per MB of DNA sequenced), From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Exploratory: next generation sequencing data, NGS data from tumour DNA and RNA including analyses of neoepitopes by targeted panel NGS and exome/transcriptome analyses when feasible., From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Exploratory: Immunophenotyping endpoint, WBC immunotyping, From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Exploratory:Whole blood mRNA expression profiling, Whole blood mRNA expression profiling, From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Exploratory: Immune cell genomics including T-cell receptor sequencing, Immune cell genomics including T-cell receptor sequencing, From date of randomisation until the end of trial or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months
Open-label, single arm, phase II trial initially pursuing a two-stage Simon Minimax design. The null hypothesis Po will be 0.20; the alternative hypothesis Pa will be 0.40 (type 1 error will be 0.05 and type 2 error will be 0.10).

Patients with metastatic CRPC tumours characterised by high mutational load, high microsatellite instability as established, for example, by the Promega MSI 1.2 analysis system, or a DNA repair defect including loss of MMR, identified on archival or fresh tissue biopsy specimens (through a TMG approved sequencing study e.g. the MAESTRO study) who have either exhausted established active anticancer drugs, or preferred not to have established agents, will be offered entry into the PERSEUS1 study.

Part A: Part A is an open-label, single arm, two-stage Simon Minimax design phase II trial.

Stage 1: Patients will continue their LHRH analogue therapy. This cohort will include 24 patients as the first stage of a two-stage Phase II. If more than 5 responses in these first 24 patients are reported then the study will proceed to stage 2. Anti-tumour activity will be assessed (measured by response rates) by PSA, imaging assessments (CT \& bone scans or when indicated whole body MRI) and CTC count measures. Whole Body MRI (WB-MRI) will be performed instead of CT in patients with contraindications to CT contrast), or instead of bone scan in patients with widespread bone disease at baseline thought to be non-evaluable by PCWG criteria due to inability to reliably identify two new lesions.

Stage 2: This will enrol a further 21 patients to a total of 45 patients. Ineffectiveness will be concluded if ≤5 and ≤13 responses are seen in the stage 1 and stage 2 respectively and the null hypothesis will be rejected (i.e. further research would be warranted) if \>13 responses are reported from the first 45 patients.

With this Simon Minimax design the probability of early termination of this trial when the true response probability (P0) is \<0.20 is 0.66.

Part B: Biomarker enrichment stage: If the null hypothesis is rejected (and with Sponsor approval and confirmation of sufficient funding) the study will continue with stratified recruitment into biomarker defined cohorts in order to increase the precision with which the response rate can be estimated within mCRPC molecular subgroups of interest. It is anticipated that approximately 55 patients will be included in Part B, which will make a total of 100 mCRPC patients in part A and B together, including ≥9 patients for each of:

A) MMR defective mCRPC; B) High mutational load mCRPC without MMR defects; C) mCRPC with deleterious homologous recombination (HR) DNA repair aberrations (BRCA2, ATM, BRCA1, PALB2, others); D) mCRPC with deleterious nucleotide excision repair (NER) aberrations; E) mCRPC with deleterious base excision repair (BER) aberrations; F) mCRPC with deleterious aberrations in non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ).

Eligibility for more than one cohort is anticipated to be uncommon; where this occurs "allocation" to a cohort will be determined in discussion with the CI based on initial sequencing results and with priority given to driver (rather than sub-clonal) mutations. Patients recruited in Part A will be retrospectively "allocated" to a cohort on the basis of their initial sequencing data (reported prior to trial entry) prior to any response assessments, for the purposes of analysis. Within each biomarker subgroup (A-F) this will allow us to reject the probability of a \>30% response rate if we see no responses in 9-patients, with a 5% false negative risk (Gehan design). If ≥1 responses are seen in 9 patients in a subtype, recruitment will continue to that subtype with a further 20-25 patients such that the final estimate of the response rate has a standard error of 10%. Response rates with confidence intervals will be reported for each subtype.

In the absence of any safety concerns from the IDMC, recruitment will continue seamlessly from Part A stage 1 to Part A stage 2 and from Part A stage 2 to the Part B biomarker enrichment cohorts. It is possible that at the time of the Part A stage 1 and 2 overall analysis (based on 45 patients), the graduation of some of the more common subgroups to the enrichment phase will be known (e.g. if more than 1 response from 9 patients recruited to a biomarker subgroup that cohort would continue to at least 20 patients). Conversely, if no successes have been seen in 9 patients of a particular subtype, recruitment to that subtype would not proceed to the enrichment stage.

The biomarker defined cohorts may accrue at different rates related to genomic prevalence. At each stop/go decision point (end of enrichment stage 1 in a particular cohort) overall progress of all the ongoing enrichment cohorts will be reviewed by the IDMC/TSC. They will be asked to advise on the value of continued accrual to the cohorts particularly in light of slow recruitment.