Effect of Pulmonary Rehabilitation in Lung Cancer Survivors
Patients who have surgery to cure lung cancer often have multiple problems at hospital discharge and later on. This includes poor exercise performance and quality of life, breathlessness, pain and tiredness. Currently there is little formal physical or psychological support for such patients. This pilot study aims to investigate whether outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation (an exercise training and education programme), started within 2 weeks of hospital discharge, can lead to improvements in exercise performance and quality of life in patients who have undergone lung cancer surgery. The study will also assess whether pulmonary rehabilitation is acceptable for patients and will analyze the safety profile. The hypothesis is that patients; discharged from hospital after undergoing lung cancer surgery, have improved exercise performance and quality of life following early outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation compared with usual care.
Lung Cancer|Lobectomy|Pulmonary Rehabilitation
OTHER: Pulmonary Rehabilitation|OTHER: Usual post operative care
Six minute walk test to assess exercise tolerance, Within 3 month of discharge from surgery
Shoulder Range of Motion Changes, Within 3 months of discharge from surgery|Bioimpedence for tissue composition, Within 3 months of discharge from surgery|Quality of life measurement changes, Within 3 months of discharge from surgery
The research question is to investigate

* whether patients who have undergone curative surgical resection for lung cancer benefit from 8 weeks of early outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation (started within 2 weeks of hospital discharge).
* to identify potential barriers to this approach

Pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) is the most effective non-pharmacological treatment for patients with chronic respiratory diseases, especially COPD. Many patients with lung cancer have co-existing smoking-related lung disorders such as COPD. To date there have been no randomised controlled trials of PR in post-resection lung cancer survivors. However there is indirect evidence that PR may be of benefit in this patient cohort. Cesario et al (2007)reported a 32% improvement in exercise capacity with in-patient PR, and Spruit et al (2009) demonstrated a 43% improvement in six minute walk distance following an 8-week in-patient PR programme. However, both studies had small numbers, and no randomised control group. Furthermore, inpatient PR is not an economically justifiable intervention in the NHS where emphasis is on self-management and ambulatory care.