FES BPET-DBT in Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer
Patients with newly diagnosed primary estrogen-receptor (ER) positive breast cancer, with at least one breast lesion that is 1.0 cm in diameter or greater, may be eligible for this study. Patients may participate in this study if they are at least 18 years of age. Up to 20 evaluable subjects will participate in a single imaging cohort. Study subjects will undergo imaging of the breast with a novel device combining dedicated Breast Positron Emission Tomography (BPET) and Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (DBT) following intravenous injection of \[18F\]-Fluoroestradiol (FES). This is an observational study; FES-BPET/DBT will not be used to direct treatment decisions. While patients and referring physicians will not be blinded to the FES-BPET/DBT results, treatment decisions are made by the treating physicians based upon standard clinical imaging.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: BPET/DBT imaging|DRUG: 18F-FES
Uptake of FES on BPET, Different types of SUV measurements (e.g. Max, Mean and Peak) may be tested to identify the optimal method for analyses for future studies of FES-BPET/DBT., 6 weeks|Image quality, The image quality of the study DBT will be compared to the clinical DBT in terms of image quality, 6 weeks|Image artifacts, Image artifacts on study DBT will be compared to clinical DBT, 6 weeks|Parenchymal appearance, The parenchymal appearance of the study DBT will be compared to the clinical DBT, 6 weeks|Tumor size and extent, The size/extent of tumor on the study DBT will be compared to the clinical DBT, 6 weeks
Estrogen receptor IHC, Clinical immunohistochemical estrogen receptor (ER) results from biopsy or surgery will be compared to FES PET uptake, 8 weeks
The FES-BPET/DBT imaging session will include an injection of approximately 6 mCi (expected range of injected dose is 3-7 mCi) FES. Pilot data will be collected to evaluate image quality of FES-BPET/DBT in primary breast cancer. Size and focality of breast cancer extent as measured by FES-BPET/DBT will be compared to disease extent on standard breast imaging modalities. FES uptake on BPET/DBT, as measured by SUV, will be compared to ER expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) on biopsy specimens. In addition, all subjects in this study will be recruited to the open ended Penn protocol titled 'Evaluation of Long-Axial Field-of-View Positron Emission Tomography Scanner,' IRB #843546. In those subjects who consent to this proposed study as well as #843546, assessment of disease extent on FES-BPET/DBT will be compared to that on whole body PET. Of note, those subjects who also consent to #843546 will not undergo any additional injected dose of FES radiotracer. This preliminary study seeks to evaluate FES-BPET/DBT as a preoperative imaging assay of ER-positive breast cancer disease extent within the breast.