Pembrolizumab After ASCT for Hodgkin Lymphoma, DLBCL and T-NHL
This phase II study is designed to determine the clinical efficacy of PD-1 blockade, using the anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody pembrolizumab (MK-3475), administered as consolidation therapy after autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT), in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL), classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (cHL) or peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) in 1st remission.
Hodgkin Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma|Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Progression-free Survival After ASCT, Proportion of patients alive and disease-free 18 months from autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). Progression criteria are per Lugano 2014 criteria. All patients receiving any amount of protocol treatment. Patients who have progressed or lost to follow-up prior to 18 months are counted as failures; only patients followed and progression-free for at least 18 months are counted as successes., 18 Months
Overall Survival, Survival probability of patients alive 18 months from ASCT, time-to-event, 18 Months|Relapse, Number of patients who relapse within 18 months from autologous stem cell transplantation., 18 Months|Safety and Tolerability Assessed by CTCAE v4 Grade 2 and Above Toxicity Related to Study Treatment, Number of patients who experienced at least a grade 2 toxicity with "definite," "probable," or "possible" attribute to study treatment, according to the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, 6 months|Response Rate to Pembrolizumab, In patients with measurable disease after ASCT, rate of objective response after treatment. Response was assessed using the Lugano 2014 criteria., 18 months|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival probability of patients who are alive and without progression 18 months from ASCT, time-to-event, 18 months
Overall Survival After ASCT by PET Status, Survival probability of patients alive 18 months from ASCT stratified by PET status before transplantation, time-to-event. Patients categorized by complete metabolic response (complete response by PET scan, assessed using the Lugano 2014 criteria), partial response (assessed using Lugano 2014 criteria) prior to transplantation., 18 months|Progression-free Survival After ASCT by PET Status, Progression-free survival probability of patients alive and disease-free 18 months from ASCT stratified by PET status before transplantation, time-to-event, 18 months|Completion Rate, Number of patients who complete the planned treatment, 18 months|Minimal Residual Disease, Level of MRD detected by PCR (if feasible) before and after pembrolizumab, 18 months
Pembrolizumab is an antibody drug that blocks a molecule called PD-1. PD-1 is a receptor molecule on the surface of immune cells that can be used to turn off the immune response. Some cancers use this as a way to turn off the immune response against them. Blocking PD-1 with pembrolizumabmay restore an effective immune attack against the lymphoma cells.

On this study, patients who undergo ASCT for R/R cHL, DLBCL or PTCL in 1st remission will receive pembrolizumab at a dose of 200mg intravenously every 3 weeks for up to 8 cycles, beginning within a few weeks of ASCT.