Cost-utility of VIRTUAL FIBROWALK
The main objective of this study is to assess the effectiveness and cost-utility of the VIRTUAL FIBROWALK multicomponent treatment program as coadjuvant of treatment-as- usual (TAU) compared to TAU alone.
Fibromyoma;Cervix
BEHAVIORAL: Multicomponent treatment VIRTUAL FIBROWALK + TAU
Revised Fibromyalgia Impact Questionnaire (FIQR), The FIQR comprises three dimensions: physical dysfunction (scores from 0 to 30), overall impact (scores from 0 to 20), and intensity of the symptoms (scores from 0 to 50) is used to measure the impact generated by FM during the last week. It consists of 21 items, which are answered on a numerical rating scale of 11 points (from 0 to 10). Total scores can range from 0 to 100, with higher scores reflecting greater deterioration., Change from baseline values at 6 months|Client Service Receipt Inventory (CSRI), The Client Service Receipt Inventory (CSRI) is a tool used to collect information on the whole range of services and supports study participants may use. This data can be used for a wide range of applications, including estimating the costs of service receipt., Change from baseline values at 6 months|EuroQoL questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), The descriptive system comprises five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems and extreme problems. The patient is asked to indicate his/her health state by ticking the box next to the most appropriate statement in each of the five dimensions. This decision results in a 1-digit number that expresses the level selected for that dimension. The digits for the five dimensions can be combined into a 5-digit number that describes the patient's health state., Change from baseline values at 6 months
Tampa Scale for Kinesiophobia (TSK-11), TSK-11 is used to assess fear of pain and movement. It consists of 11 items, which are answered on a Likert scale of 4 points. Total scores of each scale range from 11 to 44, where higher scores indicate a greater fear of pain and movement., Change from baseline values at 6 months|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), HADS is used to quantify the severity of anxiety and depression symptoms. It consists of two dimensions (anxiety and depression) of 7 items each responding on a Likert scale of 4 points. Total scores of each scale (HADS-A and HADSD) range from 0 to 21, where higher scores indicate greater severity of symptoms., Change from baseline values at 6 months|Physical Function of the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36), Physical Function of the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36) was used to measure physical function.This dimension comprises a total of 10 items, which are answered on a Likert scale of 3 points. Total scores on each scale are then transformed and can range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicate better physical function., Change from baseline values at 6 months
This is a two-arm RCT focused on the effectiveness and cost-utility of the multicomponent program VIRTUAL FIBROWALK as coadjuvant of treatment-as- usual (TAU) vs. TAU alone (in a 3-month follow-up RCT) VIRTUAL FIBROWALK combines multicomponent approach based on Pain Neuroscience Education (PNE), therapeutic exercise, Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and Mindfulness training.