A Study Using Nivolumab, in Combination With Chemotherapy Drugs to Treat Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma (NPC)
This phase II trial tests effects of nivolumab in combination with chemotherapy drugs prior to radiation therapy patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as gemcitabine and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Researchers want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, adding nivolumab to chemotherapy has on patients with newly diagnosed NPC. In addition, they want to find out if children with NPC may be treated with less radiation therapy and whether this decreases the side effects of therapy.
Stage II Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Fluciclovine F18|DRUG: Gemcitabine|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Incidence of grade 3 or higher immune-related adverse events (irAE) during induction chemoimmunotherapy (CIT), Will be assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. IrAEs include diarrhea (noninfectious), colitis (noninfectious), pneumonitis (noninfectious), myocarditis, elevated alanine aminotransferase, elevated aspartate aminotransferase, pancreatitis, elevated blood bilirubin, hypophysitis and hyperthyroid considered possibly, probably, or definitely related to nivolumab., Until the end of consolidation therapy
Event-free survival (EFS), EFS along with the 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The EFS will be reported separately for patients with non-metastatic disease and those with metastatic disease (if there are enough patients with metastatic disease enrolled)., From date of enrollment to the earliest occurrence of date of relapse, disease progression, second malignant neoplasm or death due to any cause, assessed at 2 years|Objective response rate, Will be defined as the rate of responders among evaluable patients using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., At the end of induction CIT|Feasibility success of the induction regimen, Will be defined as the completion of three cycles of induction without delay of greater than 30 days for radiation initiation due to toxicity in 80% of patients., At the end of induction CIT|Cumulative incidence of local or distant relapse, Defined as a function of time since enrollment will be estimated by the method of Gray., Up to 5 years
EFS, Will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., At 5 years|Overall survival, Will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier estimates., From date of enrollment to death due to any cause or date of last follow-up, assessed at 5 years|Proportion of patients who achieve complete response, Will be assessed by retrospective central review by the proportion of patients who achieve complete response by magnetic resonance imaging using RECIST 1.1 criteria and the proportion of patients who achieve complete metabolic response using Positron Emission Tomography Response Criteria In Solid Tumors criteria at the end of induction and the end of maintenance based on central review will be presented. A two-way table of response assessments according to the two modalities will be constructed and McNemar's test will be performed to evaluate the concordance., At the end of induction and maintenance|Protocol deviation related to radiation therapy delivery, Will be assessed by retrospective central review. The effect of deviation, categorized as present or absent by the central reviewer, on the hazard of EFS will be estimated by Cox proportional hazard model. The hazard ratio will be reported along with 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|EFS in patients receiving intensity modulated radiation therapy with those who receive proton therapy, Will be assessed using a log-rank test., Up to 5 years|Incidence of grade 3 or higher adverse events, Will be assessed during protocol therapy. The incidence of these events will be reported for each toxicity term. Furthermore, the irAE and toxicity related to radiation will be summarized by toxicity term and will be presented separately for the on-protocol therapy period and long-term follow-up., Up to 5 years|Swallowing dysfunction, Will be assessed using modified Functional Oral Intake Scale (FOIS) and pediatric Eating Assessment Tool (EAT)-10. The EAT-10 consists of 10 items scored from 0 (no impairment) to 4 (severe impairment). Total scores range from 0 to 40; higher scores indicate greater self-perceived impairment. Modified FOIS is an ordinal scale is a rating scale with 7 points for adults and 5 points in pediatrics. It is used to describe the feeding status and patients with dysphagia. Level 1 indicates inability to take anything by mouth while the highest point indicates full oral feeding. Will summarize responses from the modified FOIS and pediatric EAT-10 descriptively for each of these time points. A two-sided Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be performed to test the null hypothesis of equal score between two groups (who receive 54Gy versus 59.4Gy) at the end of the CRIT. Will evaluate the potential impact of other factors, as appropriate, such as baseline scores or disease stages for this analysis., At baseline, during induction prior to start of chemoradioimmunotherapy (CRIT), each cycle throughout CRIT, within 3 months after maintenance and yearly at follow up, up to 5 years|Quality of life, Will be assessed using Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS). PROMIS includes multiple measures such as physical function mobility, anxiety, depressive symptoms, fatigue, etc. PROMIS use a T-score metric in which 50 is the mean of a relevant reference population and 10 is the standard deviation of that population. Higher T-score indicates more of the concept being measured. The numerical T scores of each domain will be summarized descriptively at every time point., At baseline, during induction prior to start of CRIT, each cycle throughout CRIT, within 3 months after maintenance and yearly at follow up, up to 5 years|Lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (LMR), Will be assessed the ratio calculated by dividing the absolute lymphocyte count by the absolute monocyte count from a complete blood count with differential analysis performed. Lymphocyte and monocyte counts will be collected at the following time points: baseline, pre-radiation/consolidation, and post-radiation pre-maintenance. Cox proportional hazards regression will be used to evaluate the association between baseline LMR and EFS. The hazard ratio will be reported with a 95% confidence interval. In addition, the LMR will be summarized descriptively by the evaluation time points., At baseline, pre-radiation/consolidation, and post-radiation pre-maintenance
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate safety of combining chemotherapy (cisplatin and gemcitabine) with an anti-PD1 immune checkpoint inhibitor (nivolumab) in children, adolescents and young adults with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) by determining the rate of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade 3 or higher immune related adverse events (irAEs).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the 2-year event-free survival (EFS) of children, adolescents and young adults with NPC who are treated with induction chemoimmunotherapy (CIT), followed by consolidation chemoradioimmunotherapy (CRIT, cisplatin, nivolumab and response-adjusted, dose de-escalated radiation therapy), and nivolumab maintenance therapy.

II. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) including complete responders and partial responders (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) of neoadjuvant CIT.

III. To evaluate feasibility of combining chemotherapy (cisplatin and gemcitabine) with an anti-PD1 immune checkpoint inhibitor (nivolumab) in children, adolescents and young adults with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).

IV. To evaluate the cumulative incidence of local and distant relapse.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate 5-year EFS and overall survival (OS) of children with NPC who are treated with induction CIT followed by consolidation CRIT, and nivolumab maintenance therapy.

II. To compare response assessed by fludeoxyglucose F18 (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) versus magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

III. To determine treatment outcomes for patients treated with radiation per protocol versus (vs) deviation.

IV. To evaluate outcomes comparing patients receiving intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) to proton therapy.

V. To objectively measure both acute and long-term toxicity including immune related adverse events and radiation late effects.

VI. To evaluate swallowing dysfunction using patient reported outcome (PRO) measures for children and adults throughout the protocol for up to 5 years.

VII. To evaluate quality of life (QOL) using Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) multidimensional questionnaire throughout the protocol for up to 5 years.

VIII. To correlate the lymphocyte to monocyte ratio on complete blood counts (CBCs) with treatment response and outcomes.

IX. To collect and bank specimens (including tumor, blood and stool) for future research studies.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 of each cycle, and cisplatin IV over 3-6 hours on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and cisplatin IV over 3-6 hours on day 1 of cycles 1-2. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive concurrent radiation therapy on trial.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive nivolumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) during screening and as clinically indicated on trial. Patients undergo MRI, FDG PET, and computed tomography (CT) throughout the trial and chest x-ray during follow-up. Patients also undergo dental x-ray imaging on the trial. Patients may optionally undergo tissue biopsy, blood and stool sample collection during screening and on trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 12 months, every 6 months until 24 months off therapy, and then yearly until 5 years off therapy.