BYL719 Plus Letrozole or Exemestane for Patients With Hormone-Receptor Positive Locally-Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of a drug called BYL719 at different dose levels. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, BYL719 has on the patient and breast cancer. BYL719 will be given with either letrozole or exemestane to patients with HR+ locally-advanced or metastatic breast cancer. When the recommended phase II dose of BYL719 in combination with letrozole or exemestane has been determined in the dose-finding phase, an additional 10 patients will be enrolled onto each arm in an expansion phase of the study. The purpose of the expansion phase is to further define the safety and feasibility of BYL719 in combination with letrozole or exemestane at the recommended phase II dose, and to estimate efficacy.
Metastatic or Locally-advanced Unresectable Breast Cancer
DRUG: BYL719|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Exemestane
Phase II Dose of BYL719/Alpelisib (Arm A and Arm B), Participants started BYL719 dose of 300mg daily for cohort 0. Consecutive cohorts were administered increasing or decreasing dose levels of BYL719. All participants within a cohort will be observed for toxicity for one cycle (28 days) prior to entering additional patients., 28 days (1 Cycle)|Phase II Dose of BYL719 (Arm C and Arm D), Participants started BYL719 dose of 250 daily for cohort 0. Consecutive cohorts were administered increasing or decreasing dose levels of BYL719., 28 days (1 cycle)
Number of Participants Evaluated for Safety and Tolerability of BYL719 (Arm A, B, C and D), Toxicity will be tabulated using the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTCAE), version 4.0. A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as at least possibly related to the study medication, meeting any of the criteria listed in the table below, and occurring during Cycle 1 (≤ 28 days following the first dose of BYL719, including those in which the event started in Cycle 1 and the confirmation of the DLT occurs in a subsequent cycle)., 28 days (1 cycle)|Efficacy of BYL719 (Arm A, Arm B, Arm C and Arm D), Overall response rate, 2 years|Median Time to Treatment Failure/TTF, Time to Treatment Failure/TTF defined as the time from on-study date to off-study date for any reason, through study completion, an average of 3.5 years
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of a drug called BYL719 at different dose levels. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, BYL719 has on the patient and breast cancer. BYL719 will be given with either letrozole or exemestane to patients with HR+ locally-advanced or metastatic breast cancer. When the recommended phase II dose of BYL719 in combination with letrozole or exemestane has been determined in the dose-finding phase, an additional 10 patients will be enrolled onto each arm in an expansion phase of the study. The purpose of the expansion phase is to further define the safety and feasibility of BYL719 in combination with letrozole or exemestane at the recommended phase II dose, and to estimate efficacy.