Study of Chidamide as a Single-agent Treatment for Patients With Relapse or Refractory B-NHL
This is a prospective phase II clinical trial to observe the efficacy and safety of Chidamide as a single-agent treatment in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL).
Relapsed or Refractory B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL)
DRUG: Chidamide
objective response rate（ORR）, Overall response was determined on the basis of investigator assessments according to lymphoma response to immunomodulatory therapy criteria (LYRIC) for Malignant Lymphoma, 2016. Tumor assessments were performed with CT/MRI with or without PET., every 6 weeks until 2 years after last patient's enrollment
progression-free survival（PFS）, The time between the start of randomization and the progression of the tumor (any aspect) or (for any reason) death, every 6 weeks until 2 years after last patient's enrollment|overall survival（OS）, Time from randomization to death for any reason Time from randomization to death for any reason Time from randomization to death for any reason Time from randomization to death for any reason, every 6 weeks until 2 years after last patient's enrollment|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., Up to 36 months
Patients with relapsed /refractory aggressive B cell lymphoma usually have a poor prognosis. These patients cannot be treated successfully or tolered with the conventional chemotherapy. Epigenetic changes in B-cell lymphoma. Thus, epigenetic agents may offer potential improvment of clinical outcomes. Chidamide is a new type of oral histone deacetylase inhibitor. Our exploratory research found that Chidamide was effect in some relapsed /refractory B cell lymphoma patients

. Thus, we will evaluate the efficacy and safety of Chidamide in the patients with aggressive relapsed refractory B cell lymphoma failed from second line chemotherapy.