Consolidation of Toripalimab After Chemoradiotherapy in Elderly Esophageal Cancer (EC-CRT-007)
Although definitive chemoradiotherapy (CRT) is the standard treatment option for unresectable locally advanced esophageal cancer, elderly patients tolerate intravenous concurrent CRT less well with age and comorbidities. Previous trials have demonstrated that CRT with oral S-1 was tolerable and provided significant survival benefits over radiotherapy alone in elderly patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). However, as high as 54% of patients with elderly ESCC experienced locoregional or distant recurrence after CRT. Therefore, a more effective regimen for older patients is needed. Immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting PD-1/PD-L1 have shown substantial clinical benefits in advanced esophageal cancer. Recently, the combination of immunotherapy with CRT has emerged as a promising strategy to improve clinical outcomes in locally advanced esophageal cancer. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of toripalimab (an anti-PD-1 antibody) after concurrent CRT in elderly patients with locally advanced ESCC.
Locally Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: S-1|DRUG: Toripalimab|RADIATION: Intensity-modulated radiotherapy
Progression-free survival, Three-year follow-up from the date of enrollment to the date of disease progression or last follow-up, From date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause or the date of first documented disease progression whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.
Overall survival, Three-year follow-up from the enrollment to the date of death from any cause or date of lost follow-up, From date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|Clinical complete response, Tumor response was evaluated 13-16 weeks after the completion of treatment based on CT or PET-CT scans, and endoscopy with biopsies., 13-16 weeks after the completion of radiotherapy|Duration of response, From the date of first CR/PR to the date of first PD., From date of first CR/PR to the date of first PD according to RECIST criteria, assessed up to 36 months.|Treatment-related adverse events, Incidence of treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., From date of enrollment to the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 36 months.
Correlation between immune signature and overall survival, The correlation between pretreatment immune signature (PD-L1, CD8, CTLA-4, CD56, and CD68) by mIHC and overall survival., From date of enrollment to the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 36 months.|Correlation between serum cytokines and overall survival and immune-related adverse events, The correlation between dynamic change of serum cytokines (IL-2R, IL-6, IL-13, IL-8, CCL3, CD40, and CD274) during treatment and survival outcomes and immune-related adverse events., From date of enrollment to the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 36 months.
A total of 140 patients with elderly, unresectable, locally advanced ESCC will be stratified according to age (70-80 vs. ≥80) and TNM stage (I/II vs. III/IV) and randomly assigned (1:1) to receive toripalimab as consolidation therapy for up to 12 months (arm A) or not (arm B) after definitive radiotherapy with concurrent S-1.