Erwinase Study in Patients With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
The goal of this clinical research study is to allow doctors to use Erwinia L-Asparaginase (Erwinase®) as a replacement for patients who are allergic to E.coli L-asparaginase or Pegylated E.coli L-asparaginase as part of the treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) or T or B cell lymphoma.

This trial was part of a multi institutional effort by the drug company to make Erwinase available for use.
Leukemia
DRUG: Erwinase
Participant Toxicity Data, Toxicity data collected and reported as adverse events during the study period. See Adverse Event section for reporting., 3 Years|Number of Participants Treated With Erwinase as a Replacement for E.Coli L-asparaginase or Pegylated E.Coli L-asparaginase as Part of the Treatment for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) or T or B Cell Lymphoma, Main objective of protocol Erwinase® Master Treatment Protocol (EMTP) was to enable United States (US) participants who were treated for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) and who were allergic to Escherichia coli derived L-Asparaginase, whatever the formulation, to be treated with Erwinia derived L-Asparaginase (Erwinase®), under Investigational New Drug (IND) 290., 4 years
The Study Drug:

Erwinia L-Asparaginase helps stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the nutrients that cancer cells needed to survive.

Study Visits:

Erwinia L-Asparaginase will be given either outpatient or inpatient, depending upon your condition.

If you are allergic to E. Coli Asparaginase or Pegylated Asparaginase, you will be given 6 doses every other day.

You will receive Erwinia L-Asparaginase as an injection through a needle in your vein, under the skin, or in your muscle, as directed by your study doctor.

You will be monitored closely by your nurse and your doctor before, during, and after receiving the drug for any side effects. If you develop a severe allergy to Erwinia L-Asparaginase, you may not receive any more asparaginase therapy.

The length of study will be based upon on the ALL treatment you are currently receiving. Your doctor will discuss the details of your treatment schedule with you.

This is an investigational study. Erwinia L-Asparaginase is not FDA approved. The FDA allows patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who have an allergic reaction to the U.S.-approved L-asparaginases to receive Erwinia L-Asparaginase. Up to 35 patients will take part in this study at The University of Texas (UT) MD Anderson Cancer Center.