Adjuvant Chemotherapy With FOLFOX in HCC Patients After Resection
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the sixth most common malignancies worldwide and the second leading cause of cancer-related death. Surgical resection is still the main radical approach for HCC, but the recurrence rate after hepatectomy is very high, which hampers the further improvement of prognosis of HCC patients. The conventional risk factors of recurrence including: huge tumor, multiple lesions, vessels invasion and tumor rupture. Recently, the microvessels invasion (MVI) has been recognized a novel risk factor of recurrence after hepatectomy. The investigators' previous study showed that the recurrence rate is more than 50% for the patients with \>5cm solitary tumor and MVI. The MVI was confirmed as the only independent risk factor for the overall and disease-free survival of HCC patients in multiple variables analysis. It is important to reduce the recurrence and prolong the survival of patients after hepatectomy with effective adjuvant therapy. Reported at 2014 American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) annual meeting, A phase III randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of adjuvant sorafenib after resection or ablation to prevent recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma (STORM trial) failed to meet the primary endpoint-recurrence free survival (RFS). Given the inspiring result of a recent trial, which compared with single agent of doxorubicin, the oxaliplatin-containing regimens (FOLFOX) showed significant improvement in OS, objective response rate (ORR) and disease control rate (DCR) in Asian (especially China) HCC patients. Based on these rationales, the investigators design the current prospective randomized clinical trial to evaluate the effect of adjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX to prolong the overall survival and reduce the recurrence in HCC patients at high risk (\>5cm solitary tumor and MVI) after resection, compared to vigilant follow-up.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
DRUG: Adjuvant chemotherapy|PROCEDURE: Follow-up
Overall survival, The overall survival is defined as the percentage of patients who are alive at 5 years after their enrollments of this study., 5 years
Disease-free survival, The disease-free survival is defined as the percentage of patients who are alive at 5 years without any signs or symptoms of HCC after their enrollments of this study., 5 years|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 5 years
The patients with solitary tumor more than 5cm and microvessels invasion after radical hepatectomy were randomized to receive adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy （8\~12 cycles) or follow-up. The main endpoint: overall survival (OS), disease-free survival(DFS) and safety were compared between this two groups.