Nanoliposomal Irinotecan in Head & Neck and Esophagus After Prior Platinum-based Chemotherapy or Chemoradiotherapy
This is an open-label, single arm, multicenter phase 2 study. The study is to evaluate the activity of a combination therapy with nal-IRI (PEP02, MM-398, Onivyde®) plus 5-FU and leucovorin in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of head \& neck and esophagus failed to platinum-based treatment in prior chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. The primary endpoint is to assess the objective tumor response rate (ORR). Eligible patients will be enrolled to receive combination therapy of nal-IRI plus 5-FU and Leucovorin on day 1, every 2 weeks. Every 2 weeks will be counted as one cycle. Treatment will continue until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or other condition meeting the discontinuation criteria.
Head & Neck Cancer
DRUG: nanoliposomal irinotecan
Objective tumor response rate, Objective tumor response rate, 6 weeks
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS), 2-year|Treatment toxicities and safety profiles, Treatment toxicities and safety profiles,assessed by CTCAE v5.0, 2-year|UGT1A family - UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 with toxicity, to explore the association of the pharmacogenomic data including UGT1A family - UGT1A1 and UGT1A9 with toxicitytoxicity, 2-year|cytokine and chemokine before and after treatment, to explore the change of serum cytokine and chemokine before and after treatment, 2-year
This is a phase 2, multicenter, uncontrolled, open-labeled, and one-arm study. Eligible patients will be treated with combination therapy of nal-IRI 80 mg/m2 for 90 minutes, leucovorin 400 mg/m2 for 30 minutes and 5-FU 2400 mg/m2 for 46 hours in sequence at day 1, every 14 days counted as one cycle. Modification of treatment dose is allowed according to the toxicities occurred in the previous treatment cycle. Patients will be treated until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or other condition meeting the treatment discontinuation criteria.

Tumor response will be assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) every 6 weeks.

Adverse events (AEs) will be evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0).

Tumor marker response of SCC antigen will be evaluated by the change of serum SCC antigen level every 6 weeks. Tumor marker response is defined as a decrease of SCC antigen after treatment in relation to the pretreatment level.

Patients sign additional consent to participate in the pharmacogenetic and serum biomarker evaluation will be required to have extra blood samplings at the study entry and every 6 weeks thereafter for up to the maximum 4 times.

A follow-up visit is required approximately 30 days after treatment discontinuation. Overall survival status will be followed by clinic visit or by phone every 3 months until death or the maximum of 3 years, whichever occurs first.