FIL Study on ABVD DD-DI As Upfront Therapy in HL.
The FIL-Rouge is a randomized, open-label, multicenter, phase III, 2-arm study. The primary objective is to compare efficacy and tolerability of the intensified variant 'dose-dense/dose-intense ABVD' (ABVD DD-DI) with an interim PET response-adapted ABVD program as upfront therapy in advanced-stage classical Hodgkin Lymphoma (HL).
Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Bleomycin|DRUG: Vinblastine|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the interval elapsing from randomization until lymphoma progression or death as a result of any cause., 3 years
Complete remission rate (CR rate), CR rate is defined as the proportion of patients achieving a CR after 2 months of chemotherapy (interim) and at the end of treatment, 2 months and 6 months|PET/CT response rate, PET/CT response rate, after 2 months of chemotherapy|Event Free Survival (EFS), EFS will be measured from the time from entry onto a study to any treatment failure including disease progression, or discontinuation of treatment for any reason (e.g., disease progression, toxicity, patient preference, initiation of new treatment lacking documented progression, or death), 3 years|Disease free survival (DFS), DFS will be measured from the time of occurrence of disease-free state or attainment of a CR to disease recurrence or death as a result of lymphoma or acute toxicity of treatment, 3 years|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from entry onto the clinical trial until death as a result of any cause, 3 years|Toxicity, Acute severe toxicity, acute and delayed pulmonary toxicity, acute and delayed cardiac toxicity. Late toxicity and second malignancies.

The severity of the toxicities will be classified according to definitions of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event (CTCAE) version 4.3. It will be determined by the incidence of severe, life- threatening (CTCAE grade 3, 4 and 5) and/or serious adverse events (Infusion-related reactions)., 6 months for acute toxicity and 5 years for late toxicity|Quality of life (QoL), QoL will be measured at the baseline, the end of therapy and during follow-up through the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, 36 months|Cost-effectiveness analyses, Cost-effectiveness analyses. ICER will be calculated by dividing the difference in mean total costs arms by the difference in the mean effects. The ICER will be calculated for the principal clinical effect measures of the trial. (i.e. PFS) and for QALYs. QALYs will be calculated multiplying the amount of time a patient spent in a particular health state by the utilities estimated using the EQ-5D questionnaires, 36 months
The study is devoted to patients affected with advanced stage (IIB-IV) Hodgkin Lymphoma.

The study aims to compare the efficacy of two alternative ABVD-based strategies, the first one (Comparator arm) based on a PET-2-adaptation, the second (Experimental arm) relying on a straight dose- and time-intensified schedule, devoid of any PET-adaptation.

In the Comparator arm, the patients will receive two courses of standard ABVD (ABVD-28). Those with a PET-2 negative scan (Deauville Score 1-3) will proceed with additional 4 ABVD courses while those with a PET-2-positive scan (Deauville score 4-5) will be diverted towards a deferred intensification with either escalated BEACOPP or HDT plus ASCR , according to the preference of the Center.

In the Experimental arm, patients are treated with three cycles of a dose-dense/dose-intense ABVD (ABVD DD-DI) \[e.g. a modified ABVD including the single escalation of doxorubicin to 35 mg/m2 (70 mg/m2 per cycle) and a three-weekly recycle time for all drugs (e.g. administration of all 4 drugs at days 1 and 11 of each cycle)\]. Those with a progressive disease or non-responder patients according to PET/CT imaging at interim evaluation (after cycle 3) as categorized with Lugano 2014 Classification will be diverted to salvage strategies. The other patients will receive one additional course of ABVD DD-DI followed by two courses of dose-dense three-weekly ABVD (ABVD DD) (e.g. administration of all four drugs at days 1 and 11 of each cycle at the conventional doses, including doxorubicin at 25 mg/m2).

In both treatment arms 30 Gy Involved Site Radiotherapy (ISRT) is scheduled for those patients PET-negative (DS=3) with residual tumor rests ≥ 2.5 cm and for PET-positive patients in PR (DS= 4 or 5) regardless of the size of the rests. The single reference dose is 2.0 Gy daily and fractionation is five times per week.

Only in the Comparator arm the patients in CR (final score 1-3 according to 5PS by central review panel decision) will receive adjuvant ISRT at the initial bulky site(s) for a total reference dose of 30 Gy in single daily fractions of 2.0 Gy, five times weekly.

Blinded independent central reviewing for PET imaging will supervise response categorization at interim and final PET/CT evaluation.