Comparison of Laparoscopic and Open Total Gastrectomy for Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer
Evidence of implementation of laparoscopic total gastrectomy (LTG) for locally advanced gastric cancer (GC) remains inadequate. This study aimed to compare short- and mid-term outcomes of LTG versus open total gastrectomy (OTG) for cT2-4a GC.
Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic gastrectomy
3 year overall survival by Kaplan Mayer, The percentage of people in this study who are alive three years after surgery, 3 year after surgery|3 year relapse-free survival by Kaplan Mayer, The percentage of people in this study who are alive without recurrence three years after surgery., 3 year after surgery
operative morbidity, The rate of postoperative bleeding and the rate of postoperative leakage, 30 days after surgery|operative mortality, The rate of postoperative dead, 30 days after surgery|operative time, The duration of a surgical procedure in minutes., intraoperative|Resected lymph nodes, The number of lymph nodes harvested after surgery, intraoperative|hospital stay, The number of days between surgery and discharge, 30 days after surgery
Gastric cancer (GC) is a significant public health issue worldwide. Surgical resection and lymphadenectomy is the first option for curative treatment of this disease. For tumors located in the middle and/or upper third of the stomach, open total gastrectomy (OTG) has long been the standard surgery.

While the advantage of laparoscopic distal gastrectomy over open distal gastrectomy for not only early gastric cancer (EGC) but also locally advanced gastric cancer (AGC) had been proven, the use of laparoscopic total gastrectomy (LTG) for GC, particularly for AGC, has not been widely accepted due to technical challenges with lymphadenectomy at the distal pancreas and the splenic hilum as well as the complexity of the esophago-jejunal reconstruction. Recently, there has been advancement in laparoscopic techniques and improved surgical experience, a standard procedure of LTG has been established, leading to increase utilization of LTG, especially for EGC. Two large RCTs, KLASS-03 in Korea and CLASS-02 in China, provided good evidence for the advantages of LTG for EGC. However, for AGC, some prior studies have demonstrated the safety of LTG compared to OTG but lacked significant data for survival. Until now, there have been no completed RCTs to determine the short- and long-term outcomes of LTG for AGC.

In the research center, LTG has been accepted as a standard procedure for EGC since 2008 and for AGC since 2013. In Vietnam and other low-to-middle-income countries, most GC was diagnosed in an advanced stage. It is needed to have evidence of the feasibility, safety, and oncological results of LTG for locally advanced GC. Investigators performed this study to compare the technical feasibility, short- and long-term outcomes of LTG versus OTG for stage T2-4a GC.