PET/MR for Rectal Cancer Treatment Monitoring and Surveillance
The goal of pilot study is to assess the feasibility of FDG-PET/MRI for monitoring rectal cancer disease status in the setting of rectal cancer non-operative management (NOM). Data from this study will be used to guide the design of future clinical trials involving FDG-PET/MRI for rectal cancer NOM.
Rectal Cancer|Cancer of the Rectum
DEVICE: FDG PET/MRI
Technical Feasibility of PET/MRI as Measured by the Completion of the Study With Acceptable Image Quality in ≥70% of Scans, -For patients imaged at multiple time points after enrollment, all available PET/MRIs will be included in the feasibility analysis. Patients able to remain on the scanner for the full duration of the planned data acquisition without any serious adverse events will be considered to have completed the PET/MRI rectal cancer protocol. Image quality will be assessed by the Principal Investigator on review at a dedicated workstation with specialized PET/MR software. A standardized Likert-based scoring scheme will be utilized to capture subjective assessments of image contrast (1 = worst; 5 = best), image resolution (1 = worst; 5 = best), and image artifact 'freeness' (1 = worst; 5 = best). Image sets scoring ≥ 3 in all three categories will be considered of acceptable quality., Up to 12 months after completion of enrollment of all patients (26 months)
Percentage of Scans With Changes in Perceived Disease Status as Measured by PET/MRI Tumor Regression Grade Relative to the Conventional MRI Only Tumor Regression Grade, * The study reader will interpret the MRI for the tumor regression grade and then will interpret the PET/MRI for the tumor regression grade.
* The tumor regression grade is a five-tier imaging-based scoring system based on the ability to distinguish between tumor and fibrosis. mrTRG 1, low signal fibrosis only, no tumor signal; mrTRG 2, more than 75 per cent fibrosis and minimal tumor signal intensity; mrTRG 3, 50 per cent tumor/fibrosis; mrTRG 4, less than 25 per cent fibrosis, predominant tumor signal; and mrTRG 5, no fibrosis, Up to 12 months after completion of enrollment of all patients (26 months)
The goal of pilot study is to assess the feasibility of FDG-PET/MRI for monitoring rectal cancer disease status in the setting of rectal cancer non-operative management (NOM). Data from this study will be used to guide the design of future clinical trials involving FDG-PET/MRI for rectal cancer NOM.