A Phase I/II Open Label Single Centre Trial to Assess the Safety, Tolerability and Efficacy of Single Dose Neoadjuvant Anti-CLEVER-1 Antibody Bexmarilimab in Localised Renal Cell and Colon Carcinoma
Bexmarilimab treatment has demonstrated tolerable safety profile and anticancer efficacy in some subjects with advanced malignancies. This is the first study to investigate the effect of single neoadjuvant dose of anti-CLEVER-1 antibody bexmarilimab prior to radical surgery of renal cell and colon cancers. We expect that the single dose will demonstrate measurable effects on the tumour immunological microenvironment as well as systemic effects on subject´s immunological status and that this evidence may be used to guide future neoadjuvant studies. There will be a dose escalation to investigate the effect of different doses of bexmarilimab. In addition to subjects receiving single neoadjuvant dose of bexmarilimab, there will be an observational cohort without Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) for either cancer. All patients participating in the study (whether in investigational or observational cohort) will attend each visit and are assessed for the same endpoints.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell|Carcinoma Colon
DRUG: bexmarilimab
Adverse Events ≥Grade 3 during the 28 days (4 weeks) following the single dose of bexmarilimab and surgical adverse events ≥Grade 3 during the 14days (2 weeks) following the surgery, Adverse Events ≥Grade 3 according to the National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0 during the 28 days (4 weeks) following the single dose of bexmarilimab and surgical adverse events ≥Grade 3 according to the Clavien-Dindo classification occurring during the 14 days (2 weeks) following the surgery, 28 days and 14 days
Adverse events until the follow-up visit on Day 84, Day 84|Radiological response rate according to the response evaluation criteria in solid tumours (RECIST 1.1) (Day 13), Day 13|Pathological response rate evaluated with Ryan tumour regression grade (Day 14), percentage of tumour cell necrosis, Day 14|Long-term clinical benefit measured by disease-free survival assessed at 1, 3 and 5 years, 1, 3, and 5 years
Bexmarilimab treatment has demonstrated tolerable safety profile and anticancer efficacy in some subjects with advanced malignancies. This is the first study to investigate the effect of single neoadjuvant dose of anti-CLEVER-1 antibody bexmarilimab prior to radical surgery of renal cell and colon cancers. We expect that the single dose will demonstrate measurable effects on the tumour immunological microenvironment as well as systemic effects on subject´s immunological status and that this evidence may be used to guide future neoadjuvant studies. There will be a dose escalation to investigate the effect of different doses of bexmarilimab. In addition to subjects receiving single neoadjuvant dose of bexmarilimab, there will be an observational cohort without Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) for either cancer. All patients participating in the study (whether in investigational or observational cohort) will attend each visit and are assessed for the same endpoints.