Interim Digital PET/CT in Predicting Outcomes for Participants With Locally Advanced Oropharyngeal Cancer Undergoing Chemoradiation Therapy
This pilot trial studies how well interim digital positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) works in predicting outcomes in participants with oropharyngeal cancer that has spread from its original site of growth to nearby tissues or lymph nodes who are undergoing chemoradiation therapy. Diagnostic procedures, such as PET/CT may help measure a participant's response to treatment.
Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|HPV Positive Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Quantitative assessments of digital positron emission tomography (dPET) characteristics generated at early time points during treatment, For each of the promising dPET parameters identified in the primary analysis we will examine potential cut-points to be used to best predict 6-month response/non-response using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) methods. Here we will examine specificity, sensitivity, positive predictive value and negative predictive values for each promising parameter to allow for preliminary data to be generated to anticipate which parameters may warrant future study., Up to 2 years
Tumor burden, Will compare digital versus conventional PET. Comparison of PET parameters from the dPET or the conventional (c)PET will be visualized using scatterplots; agreement between the two methods will be summarized., Up to 2 years|Response rate for each patient local control, Will be defined as no evidence of disease at 6 months on physical and endoscopic exam for patient with a compete response on 3 month PET. Will be performed using Kaplan-Meier methods., At 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be performed using Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 2 years|Standard uptake volume (SUV) from digital/conventional PET, Will assess SUV and will compare mean values for each interim dPET. The changes of dPET/cPET SUV over the study period will be visualized using longitudinal plot, summarized at each time point, and modeled using linear mixed model for repeated measures., At 3 months|Metabolic tumor volume (MTV) from digital/conventional PET, Will assess MTV and will compare mean values for each interim dPET. The changes of dPET/cPET MTV over the study period will be visualized using longitudinal plot, summarized at each time point, and modeled using linear mixed model for repeated measures., At 3 months|Total lesion glycolysis (TLG) from digital/conventional PET, Will calculate TLG based on MTV and SUV and will compare mean values for each interim dPET. The changes of dPET/cPET TLG over the study period will be visualized using longitudinal plot, summarized at each time point, and modeled using linear mixed model for repeated measures., At 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the utility of early (i.e. during treatment) digital (d)PET as a diagnostic tool to predict local control 6 months after definitive chemoradiation for patients with locally advanced oropharyngeal carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the association between dynamic dPET parameters taken at early time points (i.e. during treatment) and complete response (CR) on PET after definitive chemoradiation.

II. To study the association between dynamic dPET parameters taken at early time points (i.e. during) treatment and 2 year LC after definitive chemoradiation.

III. To assess the ability of dynamic dPET compared to conventional PET or conventional-equivalent dPET reconstruction to identify tumor volumes with greater sensitivity at the time of before (dPET1), during (dPET2, dPET3) and after (dPET4, dPET5) chemoradiation.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive radiotracer injection and undergo dPET/CT over 20-75 minutes at baseline, during the 2nd and 4th week of radiotherapy, and 3 months after the completion of chemoradiation therapy.