Ipilimumab With or Without Talimogene Laherparepvec in Unresected Melanoma
Phase 1b of the study will evaluate the safety of talimogene laherparepvec in combination with ipilimumab. Phase 2 is a randomized study that will evaluate the safety and efficacy of talimogene laherparepvec in combination with ipilimumab versus ipilumumab alone.
Melanoma
DRUG: Talimogene laherparepvec|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicities, A DLT was defined as any toxicity related to study drug which met any of the following criteria based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0:

* treatment-related non-laboratory adverse events (AE) ≥ grade 4
* ≥ grade 4 immune-mediated dermatitis
* ≥ grade 4 immune-mediated endocrinopathy (except autoimmune thyroiditis)
* ≥ grade 3 immune-mediated enterocolitis
* ≥ grade 3 immune-mediated hepatitis (except grade 3 that resolved to grade 1 or baseline within 28 days of onset)
* ≥ grade 3 immune-mediated neuropathy
* ≥ grade 3 other immune-mediated AEs including hemolytic anemia, angiopathy, myocarditis, pericarditis, temporal arteritis, or vasculitis, autoimmune thyroiditis (except grade 3 that resolved to grade 1 or baseline within 28 days of onset), blepharitis, conjunctivitis, episcleritis, iritis, scleritis, or uveitis, pancreatitis, meningitis, arthritis or polymyalgia rheumatic, nephritis, pneumonitis, psoriasis or leukocytoclastic vasculitis., The DLT evaluation period was 6 weeks from the initial administration of ipilimumab (week 6 to 12).|Phase 2: Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to the modified immune-related response criteria (irRC) assessed by the investigator. Tumors were examined clinically and by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

CR: Complete disappearance of all lesions and no new lesions; Any pathological lymph nodes reduced in short axis to \<10 mm.

PR: Decrease in tumor burden ≥ 50% relative to baseline. Response must have been confirmed by a repeat, consecutive assessment ≥ 4 weeks from the date first documented. Participants who did not have any follow-up tumor assessments were regarded as non-responders., Tumor response was assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression; median follow-up time at the primary analysis was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.
Phase 1b: Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to the modified immune-related response criteria (irRC) assessed by the investigator. Tumors were examined clinically and by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

CR: Complete disappearance of all lesions and no new lesions; Any pathological lymph nodes reduced in short axis to \<10 mm.

PR: Decrease in tumor burden ≥ 50% relative to baseline. Response must have been confirmed by a repeat, consecutive assessment ≥ 4 weeks from the date first documented. Participants who did not have any follow-up tumor assessments were regarded as non-responders., Tumor response was assesed every 12 weeks until disease progression; median follow-up time at the primary analysis was 148.4 weeks.|Phase 2: Best Overall Response, Best overall response was categorized in descending order as a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD) or unevaluable (UE) based on investigator assessment according to the modified irRC.

CR: Complete disappearance of all lesions and no new lesions; Any pathological lymph nodes reduced in short axis to \<10 mm.

PR: Decrease in tumor burden ≥ 50% relative to baseline. PD: Increase in tumor burden ≥ 25% relative to nadir. SD: Not meeting criteria for CR or PR, in absence of PD and no earlier than 77 days after the date of enrollment/randomization.

CR, PR and PD must have been confirmed at 2 consecutive assessment ≥ 4 weeks apart.

Assessments occurring after the start of the first subsequent anticancer therapy or removal of a lesion were not included., Tumor response was assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression; median follow-up time at the primary analysis was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Phase 2: Disease Control Rate, Disease control rate (DCR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR, PR or SD based on investigator assessment according to the modified irRC.

CR: Complete disappearance of all lesions and no new lesions; any pathological lymph nodes reduced in short axis to \<10 mm.

PR: Decrease in tumor burden ≥ 50% relative to baseline. SD: Not meeting criteria for CR or PR, in absence of PD and no earlier than 77 days after the date of enrollment/randomization.

CR and PR must have been confirmed at 2 consecutive assessments ≥ 4 weeks apart., Tumor response was assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression; median follow-up time at the primary analysis was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Phase 2: Durable Response Rate, Durable response rate (DRR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a duration of response (best response of CR or PR) per modified irRC of at least 6 months. Duration of response is the time from the first confirmed CR or PR to confirmed disease progression per the modified irRC or death, whichever occurs earlier., Tumor response was assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression; median follow-up time at the primary analysis was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Phase 2: Time to Response, Time to confirmed response (TTR) was defined as the time from randomization to the date of the first confirmed CR or PR per modified irRC criteria. Participants who did not have a confirmed CR or PR were censored at their last evaluable tumor assessment date., Tumor response was assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression; median follow-up time at the primary analysis was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Phase 2: Duration of Response, Duration of response was calculated only for participants with an objective response per modified irRC and was defined as the time from first confirmed objective response (CR or PR) to confirmed disease progression per the modified irRC or death, whichever was earlier. Responders who did not have an event of death or disease progression were censored at their last evaluable tumor assessment date., Tumor response was assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression; median follow-up time at the primary analysis was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Phase 2: Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was measured from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression (as measured by modified irRC) or death on or before the data cutoff date, whichever occurred first. Participants who had no disease progression and did not die while on study were censored at the last disease assessment date., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 23 August 2016; median follow-up time was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Phase 2: Resection Rate, Resection rate was defined as the percentage of participants who had surgical procedures for melanoma that resulted in a partial reduction or complete eradication of all previously unresectable cutaneous or visceral metastatic disease. Surgical procedures for melanoma with palliative intent (eg, for pain control) in the presence of disease progression were not considered resection., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 23 August 2016; median follow-up time was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Phase 2: Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. Participants without an event were censored at the last date they were known to be alive. Participants with a vital status obtained after the data cut-off were censored at the date cut-off date., From randomization until the primary analysis data cut-off date of 23 August 2016; median follow-up time was 57.7 weeks and 68.1 weeks in each treatment group respectively.|Phase 2: Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Percentage of Participants Alive at Month 12 and 24, The overall survival estimates at month 24 data were not mature as most participants had not been followed for 24 months at the time of data cutoff., Months 12 and 24; The median (Q1, Q3) follow-up time from randomization to the primary analysis data cutoff date was 80.6 (58.3, 106.3) weeks.|Phase 2: Progression-free Survival - Final Analysis, Progression-free survival was measured from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression (as measured by modified irRC) or death, whichever occurred first. Participants who had no disease progression and did not die while on study were censored at the last disease assessment date., From randomization until the end of study (09 March 2021); median follow-up time was 155 weeks in the Ipilimumab group and 214 weeks in the Talimogene Laherparepvec + Ipilimumab group.|Phase 2: Overall Survival - Final Analysis, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. Participants without an event were censored at the last date they were known to be alive., From randomization until the end of study (09 March 2021); median follow-up time was 155 weeks in the Ipilimumab group and 214 weeks in the Talimogene Laherparepvec + Ipilimumab group.|Phase 2: Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Percentage of Participants Alive at Month 12 and 24 - Final Analysis, Months 12 and 24|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse events (AEs) were graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, where grade 1 = mild AE, grade 2 = moderate AE, grade 3 = severe AE, grade 4 = life-threatening or disabling AE and grade 5 = death related to AE.

The investigator assessed whether each AE was possibly related to talimogene laherparepvec (T-VEC) and/or ipilimumab (Ipi)., From first dose of study drug to 30 days after last dose of T-VEC or 60 days after last dose of Ipi, whichever was later; median duration of treatment was 14.7 weeks in Phase 1b T-VEC + Ipi, 9.1 weeks in Phase 2 Ipi, and 21.1 weeks in Phase 2 T-VEC + Ipi.
The phase 1b part is an open-label, multicenter, single-arm study where all participants will receive talimogene laherparepvec in combination with ipilimumab.

The phase 2 part of the study is an open-label, multicenter, randomized study to further assess the safety and to evaluate the efficacy of talimogene laherparepvec in combination with ipilimumab. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to receive talimogene laherparepvec plus ipilimumab or ipilimumab alone.

Participants randomized before amendment 2 will be stratified by stage of disease (stage IIIB/C, IVM1a, and stage IVM1b vs IVM1c) and v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF) V600E (a mutation resulting in a substitution of glutamic acid for valine at codon 600) (mutation vs mutation not present). Participants randomized after amendment 2 will be stratified by stage of disease (stage IIIB/C and IVM1a vs stage IVM1b and IVM1c) and prior therapy (treatment naïve vs previously treated with systemic anticancer immunotherapy vs previously treated with systemic anticancer treatment other than immunotherapy).