Chemotherapy With or Without Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Stage IB, Stage II, or Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer That Was Removed By Surgery
This randomized phase III trial studies chemotherapy and bevacizumab to see how well they work compared to chemotherapy alone in treating patients with stage IB, stage II, or stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer that was removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Bevacizumab also may stop the growth of non-small cell lung cancer by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. It is not yet known whether chemotherapy is more effective with or without bevacizumab in treating non-small cell lung cancer.
Stage IB Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIA Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIB Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pemetrexed Disodium|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Vinorelbine Tartrate
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, and patients who were thought to be alive at the time of final analysis were censored at the last date of contact. The study failed to meet its primary endpoint., From registration to death, up to 10 years
Disease-free Survival, Disease-free survival (DFS) was defined as the time from randomization to an event. Events include disease recurrence, new primary of lung cancer, second primaries or death, whichever occurred first; however, it should be noted that patients with new primaries at other non-lung sites should have continued followup for recurrence of the original cancer. Patients that have not had an event reported at analysis were censored at their last date of disease assessment., From registration to death, up to 10 years
Toxicity Rates as Assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, If the difference in the rate of a particular category of toxicities between the 2 arms (N=750 per arm) is at least 5% (4% vs. 9%), 96% power can be attained assuming a significance level of 5% (two-sided Chi Square test) and that the lower toxicity rate for one arm is 4%. A difference in the rates of grade 3-5 arterial thromboembolic events and bleeding events will be monitored and assessed between the treatment arms., Up to 1 year post-treatment|Perform Analyses of Tissue and Blood to Establish Factors That Predict for Clinical Outcome in Patients Receiving Chemotherapy, With or Without Bevacizumab, for Resected Early Stage NSCLC., From registration to death, up to 10 years|To Determine Whether Smoking Status is Linked to Outcome for Patients With Resected Stage IB - IIIA NSCLC Treated With Chemotherapy With or Without Bevacizumab in the Adjuvant Setting., From registration to death, up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall survival with chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab used in the adjuvant setting in patients with resected stage IB (\>= 4 cm) - IIIA non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate disease-free survival and toxicity with chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab used in the adjuvant setting in patients with resected stage IB (\>= 4 cm) - IIIA NSCLC.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform analyses of tissue and blood to establish factors that predict clinical outcome in patients receiving chemotherapy, with or without bevacizumab, for resected early stage NSCLC.

II. To determine whether smoking status is linked to outcome for patients with resected stage IB (\>= 4 cm) - IIIA NSCLC treated with chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab in the adjuvant setting.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I (adjuvant chemotherapy without bevacizumab): Patients receive 1 of 4 chemotherapy regimens.

REGIMEN 1: Patients receive vinorelbine ditartrate intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on days 1 and 8 and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1 immediately following vinorelbine ditartrate administration.

REGIMEN 2: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1 and cisplatin over 1 hour on day 1 immediately following docetaxel administration.

REGIMEN 3: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1 immediately following gemcitabine administration.

REGIMEN 4 (non-squamous histology only): Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 immediately following pemetrexed disodium administration.

In all regimens, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (adjuvant chemotherapy with bevacizumab): Patients receive chemotherapy as in Arm I. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment with bevacizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 1 year.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 10 years.