Talazoparib + Enzalutamide vs. Enzalutamide Monotherapy in mCRPC
This study compares rPFS in men with mCRPC treated with talazoparib plus enzalutamide vs. enzalutamide after confirmation of the starting dose of talazoparib in combination with enzalutamide.
mCRPC
DRUG: Talazoparib with enzalutamide|DRUG: Placebo with enzalutamide
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Occuring Within the First 66 Days of Dosing - Part 1, An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study intervention without regard to possibility of causal relationship. TEAEs are defined as newly occurring AEs or those worsening after first dose. As per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4, Grade 1= mild AE; Grade 2= moderate AE; Grade 3= severe AE; Grade 4= life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5= death related to an AE. Serious TEAE (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. SAEs were determined according to the investigator's assessment. Results as of 16 Aug 2022 are reported., Post dose on Day 1 up to Day 66 in Part 1|Number of Participants With All-Causality Clustered Treatment-Emergent Cytopenias by Preferred Term (PT) and Max CTCAE Grade Occuring Within the First 66 Days of Dosing - Part 1, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study intervention without regard to possibility of causal relationship. TEAEs are defined as newly occurring AEs or those worsening after first dose. As per CTCAE version 4, Grade 1=mild AE; Grade 2=moderate AE; Grade 3=severe AE; Grade 4=life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5=death related to an AE. Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) v25.0 coding dictionary applied. PTs for the cluster terms are: ANEMIA, including Anemia, Hematocrit decreased, Hemoglobin decreased, and Red blood cell count decreased; THROMBOCYTOPENIA, including, Thrombocytopenia and Platelet count decreased; NEUTROPENIA, including Febrile neutropenia, Neutropenia and Neutrophil count decreased; LEUKOPENIA, including Leukopenia, White blood cell count decreased. Events in any grade with at least 1 occurrence in participants are reported for this outcome measure. Results as of 16 Aug 2022 are reported., Post dose on Day 1 up to Day 66 in Part 1|Number of Participants With All-Causality TEAEs During the Overall Period of Part 1, An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study intervention without regard to possibility of causal relationship. TEAEs are defined as newly occurring AEs or those worsening after first dose. As per CTCAE version 4, Grade 1= mild AE; Grade 2= moderate AE; Grade 3= severe AE; Grade 4= life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5= death related to an AE. Serious TEAE (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. SAEs were determined according to the investigator's assessment. Results as of 16 Aug 2022 are reported., Post dose on Day 1 up to 28 days after the last dose of study intervention, or before new systemic antineoplastic therapy, whichever occurred first (maximum of 235.14 weeks)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related TEAEs During the Overall Period of Part 1, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study intervention without regard to possibility of causal relationship. TEAEs are defined as newly occurring AEs or those worsening after first dose. Treatment-related AE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study intervention in a participant who received study intervention. As per CTCAE version 4, Grade 1= mild AE; Grade 2= moderate AE; Grade 3= severe AE; Grade 4= life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5= death related to an AE. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. SAEs were determined according to the investigator's assessment. Results as of 16 Aug 2022 are reported., Post dose on Day 1 up to 28 days after the last dose of study intervention, or before new systemic antineoplastic therapy, whichever occurred first (maximum of 235.14 weeks)|Number of Participants With All-Causality Clustered Treatment-Emergent Cytopenias by PT and Max CTCAE Grade Occuring Anytime After Dosing - Part 1, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study intervention without regard to possibility of causal relationship. TEAEs are defined as newly occurring AEs or those worsening after first dose. As per CTCAE version 4, Grade 1=mild AE; Grade 2=moderate AE; Grade 3=severe AE; Grade 4=life-threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5=death related to an AE. MedDRA v25.0 coding dictionary applied. PTs for the cluster terms are: ANEMIA, including Anemia, Hematocrit decreased, Hemoglobin decreased, and Red blood cell count decreased; THROMBOCYTOPENIA, including, Thrombocytopenia and Platelet count decreased; NEUTROPENIA, including Febrile neutropenia, Neutropenia and Neutrophil count decreased; LEUKOPENIA, including Leukopenia, White blood cell count decreased. Events in any grade with at least 1 occurrence in participants are reported for this outcome measure. Results as of 16 Aug 2022 are reported., Post dose on Day 1 up to 28 days after the last dose of study intervention, or before new systemic antineoplastic therapy, whichever occurred first (maximum of 235.14 weeks)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Clustered Treatment-Emergent Cytopenias by PT and Max CTCAE Grade in >=10% of Participants Occuring Anytime After Dosing - Part 1, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study intervention without regard to possibility of causal relationship. TEAEs are newly occurring AEs or those worsening after first dose. Treatment-related AE was any AE attributed to study intervention in a participant who received study intervention. As per CTCAE version 4, Grade 1=mild; Grade 2=moderate; Grade 3=severe; Grade 4=life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5=death related to an AE. MedDRA v25.0 coding dictionary applied. PTs for the cluster terms are: ANEMIA, including Anemia, Hematocrit decreased, Hemoglobin decreased, and Red blood cell count decreased; THROMBOCYTOPENIA, including, Thrombocytopenia and Platelet count decreased; NEUTROPENIA, including Febrile neutropenia, Neutropenia and Neutrophil count decreased; LEUKOPENIA, including Leukopenia, White blood cell count decreased. Events in any grade with incidence in \>=10% of participants are reported. Results as of 16 Aug 2022 are reported., Post dose on Day 1 up to 28 days after the last dose of study intervention, or before new systemic antineoplastic therapy, whichever occurred first (maximum of 235.14 weeks)|Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) Assessed Radiographic Progression-Free Survival (rPFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for All-Comers - Part 2 Cohort 1, rPFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to first objective evidence of radiographic progression as assessed in soft tissue per RECIST 1.1, or death, whichever occurs first. Soft tissue disease status was assessed at regular intervals during the course of the study by computed tomography (CT) of chest and CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of abdomen and pelvis. Progression is defined using RECIST 1.1 as a \>=20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Results as of 16 Aug 2022 are reported for this outcome measure., From the start of treatment to the time of first documented progression, or death (maximum up to 42 months)|BICR Assessed rPFS Per RECIST 1.1 in Patients With DDR Deficiencies - Part 2, rPFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to first objective evidence of radiographic progression as assessed in soft tissue per RECIST 1.1, or death, whichever occurs first. Soft tissue disease status was assessed at regular intervals during the course of the study by CT of chest and CT or MRI of abdomen and pelvis. Results as of 03 Oct 2022 are reported for this outcome measure., From the start of treatment to the time of first documented progression, or death (maximum up to 38 months)
Part 1 is an open-label, non-randomized, safety and PK run-in study designed to confirm the starting dose of talazoparib in combination with enzalutamide through assessment of target safety events and PK at select sites. Part 2 is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational study comparing talazoparib plus enzalutamide vs. placebo plus enzalutamide in patients with mCRPC.