Aumolertinib in EGFR-Mutant Resected Stage IB-IIIA NSCLC (AERESA).
Aumolertinib (almonertinib; HS-10296) is a novel third-generation EGFR-TKI showing activity against EGFR-sensitizing mutations and EGFR T790M mutation. The third-generation EGFR-TKI osimertinib has been approved in the adjuvant setting. This study is to studying 3-year aumolertinib as adjuvant therapy to see how well it works in treating patients with resected stage IB-IIIA NSCLC harboring sensitizing EGFR mutations.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Aumolertinib
3-year Disease Free Survival, 3-year DFS was defined as the proportion of patients who were disease free at 3 years., 3 years after the last patient is randomized
Disease Free Survival, Disease-free survival was assessed from randomization to disease recurrence or death as a result of any cause., 3 years|Adverse Events, Adverse Events were monitored according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0., 2 years after the last patient is randomized|Number of participants with perioperative complications, Number of participants with perioperative complications, 2 years|3-year Overall Survival, 3-year OS was defined as the proportion of patients who were alive at 3 years., 3 years after the last patient is randomized
Epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) show great efficacy in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR mutations. Aumolertinib (almonertinib; HS-10296) is a novel third-generation EGFR-TKI. Aumolertinib showed activity against EGFR-sensitizing mutations and EGFR T790M mutation. In the phase III AENEAS trial, aumolertinib had improved efficacy to gefitinib with similar safety. In the phase II APOLLO trial, aumolertinib is effective and well-tolerated for patients with advanced NSCLC having an EGFR T790M mutation after disease progression on first- and second-generation EGFR TKI therapy. The third-generation EGFR-TKI osimertinib has been approved in the adjuvant setting. This study is to studying 3-year aumolertinib as adjuvant therapy to see how well it works in treating patients with resected stage IB-IIIA NSCLC harboring sensitizing EGFR mutations.