Efficacy of MBSR Treatment of Cognitive Impairment Among Breast Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate MBSR(BC), an intensive meditation-based stress reduction intervention, in order to determine its efficacy in improving cognitive functioning among breast cancer survivors. The study will employ a three group randomized design that will (1) evaluate the extent to which MBSR(BC) compared to the Breast Cancer-Education Support (BCES) program or Usual Care (UC) improves cognitive functioning among breast cancer survivors off treatment; (2) determine if improvements in cognitive functioning achieved from MBSR(BC) are mediated through increased mindfulness and decreased rumination and stress; (3) evaluate genetic variants as moderators of MBSR(BC) on improvements in CI; and (4) determine the impact of MBSR(BC) on healthcare utilization and costs, in addition it will be delivered to a sub-group in Spanish. If shown to be efficacious, the possibility exists of utilizing this intervention in other types of cancers as well as non-cancer health-related disorders in order to minimize the morbidity experienced by these populations.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: MBSR(BC) 6 Week Program|BEHAVIORAL: BCES 6 Week Program
Change in Executive Functioning from baseline to 6 months., Executive functioning is assessing the ability to develop, carry out, and make necessary changes to plans that have a goal.

This will be measured using the Stroop Neuropsychological Screening Test (SNST)., Baseline, 6 weeks (post intervention), 12 weeks follow-up and 6 months follow-up.
Change in Executive Function from baseline to 6 months., Executive functioning is assessing the ability the ability to develop, carry out, and make necessary changes to plans that have a goal.

This will be measured using the Color Trails Test (CTT-2) and the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT)., Baseline, 6 weeks (post intervention), 12 weeks follow-up and 6 months follow-up.|Change in Visuospatial Memory from baseline to 6 months., Visuospatial Memory is assessing the ability to see an object or a picture then reproduce the same object or picture if given in different parts.

These will be measured using the Brief Visuospatial Memory Test-Revised (BVMT-R)., Baseline, 6 weeks (post intervention), 12 weeks follow-up and 6 months follow-up.|Change in Verbal Memory from baseline to 6 months., Verbal Memory is assessing the ability to listen to words then reproduce the words into categories if given in different parts.

These will be measured using the Verbal Memory ( Hopkins Verbal Learning Test-Revised (HVLT-R)., Baseline, 6 weeks (post intervention), 12 weeks follow-up and 6 months follow-up.|Change in Logical Memory from baseline to 6 months., Logical Memory is assessing the ability to listen to a detailed story then reproduce the detailed story.

These will be measured using the Logical memory (Logical Memory I sub-scales from the Wechsler Memory Scale-IV (WMS-IV)., Baseline, 6 weeks (post intervention), 12 weeks follow-up and 6 months follow-up.|Change in Attention and Concentration from baseline to 6 months., Attention and Concentration are assessing the ability to follow instructions and complete tasks given the specific or non-specific nature of these tasks.

These will be measured using the Digit Span sub-test of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-IV and Part 1 of the Color Trails Test (CTT-1)., Baseline, 6 weeks (post intervention), 12 weeks follow-up and 6 months follow-up.|Change in Verbal fluency from baseline to 6 months., Verbal fluency is assessing the ability to say as many words as possible from a category in a given time.

This will be measured using the Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT)., Baseline, 6 weeks (post intervention), 12 weeks follow-up and 6 months follow-up.|Change in Cognitive Functioning from baseline to 6 months., This will be measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog)., Baseline, 6 weeks (post intervention), 12 weeks follow-up and 6 months follow-up.
Due to improved detection and treatment, survival rates among breast cancer survivors have increased. However, breast cancer survivors may experience cognitive impairment (CI) following treatment, which has been reported by breast cancer survivors up to 10 years after chemotherapy (CT). There is limited evidence on whether stress-reducing interventions improve CI in breast cancer survivors. The primary goal of this application is to establish the Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction for Breast Cancer (MBSR(BC)) program as an effective treatment for CI in breast cancer survivors. Specifically this study aim to (1) evaluate the extent to which MBSR(BC) compared to the Breast Cancer-Education Support (BCES) program or Usual Care (UC) improves cognitive functioning among breast cancer survivors off treatment; (2) determine if improvements in cognitive functioning achieved from MBSR(BC) are mediated through increased mindfulness and decreased rumination and stress; (3) evaluate genetic variants as moderators of MBSR(BC) on improvements in CI; and (4) determine the impact of MBSR(BC) on healthcare utilization and costs.

To achieve these aims, the research team will conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) among 300 breast cancer survivors (with an expected completed sample size of 250) with Stage I-III BC who have received adjuvant CT or CT and radiation. Within this RCT, MBSR(BC) will be delivered to a sub-population of Spanish speaking breast cancer survivors. Participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1:1 ratio to 1 of 3 conditions (1) the 6-week MBSR(BC) program; (2) the 6-week BCES program; or (3) UC. However, once the UC condition has reached a total of 30 participants, then randomization at the baseline assessment will occur in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of 2 conditions: (1) MBSR(BC) and (2) BCES.

The BCES program will match the MBSR(BC) program for time and attention and parallel the group support component of MBSR(BC). Assessments will take place at baseline, 6 weeks,12 weeks and 6 months and include clinical history and demographic information, objective neuropsychological assessments, subjective cognitive and symptom measurements, cost utilization surveys, and either the blood or buccal (cheek) cells collection for genetic analyses.

This study is highly innovative to be the first randomized trial to: 1) evaluate the efficacy of MBSR(BC) among breast cancer survivors for objective neuropsychological and subjective improvements in cognitive functioning; 2) evaluate genetic profiles as moderators of MBSR(BC) on improving CI; 3) offer the MBSR trial in Spanish in addition to English for the purpose of improving cognition; and 4) determine the effect of MBSR(BC) on CT-induced CI among breast cancer survivors related to health service utilization costs.

MBSR(BC) provides training to promote stress reduction through self-regulation of attention and awareness to stressful events. The preliminary results show that MBSR(BC) improves subjective cognitive functioning. If MBSR(BC) is found to be effective, it will provide evidence of a viable non-pharmacological method for managing CI in breast cancer survivors. Additionally, the examination of the effects of the hypothesized mediators may yield new insights for tailoring MBSR(BC) and/or developing additional interventions to aid breast cancer survivors. The assessment of genetic polymorphisms to explore if risk alleles are associated with improvement in cognitive functioning may demonstrate that specific genetic profiles may modify improvements in CI for those receiving MBSR(BC). Finally, if MBSR(BC) is shown to be effective, this may significantly impact healthcare utilization and cost and produce necessary evidence for clinicians, researchers and policymakers.