Bortezomib, Dexamethasone, and Cyclophosphamide in Treating Older Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well lower doses of bortezomib, dexamethasone, and cyclophosphamide work in treating older patients with multiple myeloma. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving cyclophosphamide daily may kill more cancer cells. Giving bortezomib, cyclophosphamide, and dexamethasone may be an effective treatment for multiple myeloma.
Stage I Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: dexamethasone|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: quality-of-life assessment
Overall Response rate in accordance with the IMWG Uniform Response criteria, The number of people with any response as defined by the IMWG criteria, Up to 7 months|Incidence of toxicities according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4, Up to 7 months
Changes in quality of life as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General, Changes in quality of life at baseline to the end of treatment estimated by means with confidence intervals. Quality of life will be assessed using the 34 item general functional assessment of cancer therapy (FACT-G) questionnaire., Up to 24 weeks|Changes in functional status, Changes in functional status at baseline to the end of treatment estimated by means with confidence intervals. Functional status will be assessed by scoring the thirteen item Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES-13)., Up to 24 weeks|Overall Survival, The number of people alive after 24 weeks on the study, 24 Weeks|Changes in quality of life as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General, Average changes in quality of life at baseline estimated by means with confidence intervals.Quality of life will be assessed using the 34 item general functional assessment of cancer therapy (FACT-G) questionnaire., After 6 weeks (2 courses) of treatment|Changes in functional status, Changes in functional status at baseline to the second course 2 of therapy estimated by means with confidence intervals. Functional status will be assessed by scoring the thirteen item Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES-13)., After 6 weeks (2 courses) of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) and toxicity rate of therapy with weekly bortezomib combined with oral metronomic cyclophosphamide and low-dose dexamethasone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine overall survival. II. To describe the association between disease status, treatment response, treatment toxicity, quality of life, functional status, risk for development of frailty, and inflammatory cytokine levels.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 8, and 15; cyclophosphamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21; and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 3 months.