Effect of Endocrine Therapy Duration on Clinical Outcome of Patients With HR+ Intraductal Carcinoma of the Breast
This study will investigate the relationship between the endocrine therapy and the survival of patients with hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast, and the optimal duration of medication. This study will also analyze the risk factors of recurrence and metastasis of hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast and establish a prognosis model to further clarify the specific reasons for recurrence and metastasis, adverse reactions, and drug withdrawal in patients with hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast after endocrine therapy.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Tamoxifen|DRUG: Toremifene|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Exemestane
Disease-free survival up to 16 years, Disease-free survival refers to the time from the first disease-free day (i.e. the operation day) to the day at which relevant event occurs., Time from the first disease-free day to the end of the last follow-up, assessed up to 16 years|Invasive disease-free survival up to 16 years, Invasive disease-free survival refers to the time from the first disease-free day (i.e. the operation day) to the day at which intraductal carcinoma of the breast recurs. The recurrent diseases include ipsilateral or contralateral breast cancer, local and distant recurrence of breast cancer, and death due to any reason., Time from the first disease-free day to the end of the last follow-up, assessed up to 16 years|Distant disease-free survival up to 16 years, Distant disease-free survival refers to the time from the first disease-free day (i.e. the operation day) to the day at which distant metastasis occurs., Time from the first disease-free day to the end of the last follow-up, assessed up to 16 years
Overall survival up to 16 years, Overall survival refers to the first disease-free day to the time of death caused by any reason., Time from the first disease-free day to the end of the last follow-up, assessed up to 16 years
Adverse events of endocrine therapy up to 16 years, The incidence, nature, and severity of adverse events (including serious adverse events), Time from the first disease-free day to the end of the last follow-up, assessed up to 16 years
Intraductal carcinoma of the breast accounts for 20% of newly diagnosed breast cancer. In addition to necessary surgical treatment, 5-year endocrine therapy is also essential for patients with hormone receptor positive ductal carcinoma of the breast. Commonly used drugs include selective estrogen receptor modulators (Tamoxifen, Toremifene) and aromatase inhibitors (Exemestane, Anastrozole, Letrozole). Although these drugs can effectively reduce the recurrence and metastasis of ductal carcinoma of the breast, the adverse reactions of the above drugs significantly reduce the quality of life and treatment compliance of the patients. Therefore, the choice of endocrine therapy for intraductal carcinoma of the breast has been widely discussed. Is it possible for de-escalation of endocrine treatment intensity to reduce adverse reactions and improve patient compliance? Recently, a phase 3 clinical trial found that compared with placebo group, the adverse reactions of Tamoxifen group treated with 5 mg/d (conventional dose 20 mg/d) Tamoxifen for 3 years had less adverse reactions and achieved significant efficacy. This study revealed the reliable efficacy and safety of Tamoxifen, a low-dose drug for treatment of hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast. However, little is reported on the reasonable duration of Aromatase inhibitors for endocrine therapy in patients with intraductal carcinoma of the breast.

This study will investigate the relationship between the endocrine therapy and the survival of patients with hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast, and the optimal duration of medication. This study will also analyze the risk factors of recurrence and metastasis of hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast and establish a prognosis model to further clarify the specific reasons for recurrence and metastasis, adverse reactions, and drug withdrawal in patients with hormone receptor positive intraductal carcinoma of the breast after endocrine therapy.