Immunotherapy and SBRT for Metastatic Head and Neck Carcinomas
Immunotherapy targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway had previously been shown to be efficacious in the treatment of patients with metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinomas. Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) to metastatic lesions causes localized cancer cell killing and the release of cancer cell debris, which could stimulate the immune system in the presence of immunotherapy. The purpose of this study is to assess the tolerability and efficacy of combining Durvalumab (MEDI4736), Tremelimumab and SBRT in controlling cancer progression. SBRT will be administered to patients while they are receiving Durvalumab and Tremelimumab.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: SBRT|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab
Acute toxicities of the treatment, The rate of Grade 3-5 combination TTC-related toxicities within 12 weeks from the start of SBRT treatments. The results will be tabulated to examine their frequency, organ systems affected, severity, and relationship to study treatment.

Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V4.03 will be used for grading of AEs. Investigators will provide their assessment of causality as 1) unrelated, 2) unlikely, 3) possibly related, 4) probably, or 5) definitely related., 3 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), To evaluate whether the combination SBRT with Durvalumab and Tremelimumab will improve the progression-free survival of patients.

Response will be assessed as per RECIST version 1.1., 6 months
Local control (LC), Defined as stable disease, partial response, or complete response based on serial imaging with CT scan. Recurrence will be defined as a suspicious mass at the site of SBRT treated lesion, progressing in size on 2 consecutive computed tomography scans at a minimum interval of 1 month, combined with a positive FDG-PET defined by a SUV max ≥ 5, or a biopsy-proven confirmation., 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Regional or distant disease progression according to RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, 2 years|Overall survival (OS), A subject will be classified as either alive or dead due to any cause. The time to event will be calculated as the time from Day 1 until date of death. Day 1 is the date of 1st treatment with durvalumab and tremelimumab., 2 years|Abscopal events, Defined as anti-tumor response outside the radiotherapy field.

Response will be assessed as per RECIST version 1.1., 2 years
Immunotherapy targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway had previously been shown to be efficacious in the treatment of patients with metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinomas. Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) to metastatic lesions causes localized cancer cell killing and the release of cancer cell debris, which could stimulate the immune system in the presence of immunotherapy. The purpose of this study is to assess the tolerability and efficacy of combining Durvalumab (MEDI4736), Tremelimumab and SBRT in controlling cancer progression. SBRT will be administered to patients while they are receiving Durvalumab and Tremelimumab.