Study of GSK3901961 In Previously Treated Advanced (Metastatic OR Unresectable) Synovial Sarcoma/ Myxoid/Round Cell Liposarcoma, and Previously Treated Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The primary purpose of this sub study is to assess the safety, tolerability and determine recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of GSK3901961 in HLA A\*02:01, HLA-A\*02:05 and/or HLA A\*02:06 positive participants with New York esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (NY ESO 1) and/or Cancer testis antigen 2 (LAGE 1a) positive previously treated metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) and previously treated, advanced (metastatic or unresectable) Synovial Sarcoma/ Myxoid/Round Cell Liposarcoma SS/MRCLS.
Neoplasms
DRUG: GSK3901961|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLT events were graded according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0. DLTs were defined as Grade (Gr) 4 (life-threatening and death) related to GSK3901961 2) Gr 3 (Severe or medically significant) at least possibly related to GSK3901961 and do not resolve to Gr \<=1 (or Baseline) within 7 days from the onset of the event 3) Gr \>=3 non-infectious pneumonitis not responding to oxygen supplementation and systemic steroid treatment 4) Any Gr 3 cytokine release syndrome (CRS) at least possibly related to GSK3901961 that does not improve to Gr \<2 (moderate) toxicity within 7 days with or without dexamethasone 5) Any Gr 4 CRS at least possibly related to study product that does not improve to Gr \<=2 (or Baseline) within 7 days 6) Any Gr 3 or greater neurotoxicity that does not resolve to Gr \<=2 within 72 hours 7) Any Gr \>=3 organ toxicity (exclusive of CRS toxicity) involving major organ systems that persists for \>72 hours and occurs within 28 days of infusion., Up to 28 days|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious AEs Based on Maximum Severity, An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose can result in death, is life threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth or is medically significant or requires intervention to prevent one or the outcomes listed above. AEs and SAEs were graded according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0. Grade 1- Mild; Grade 2- Moderate; Grade 3- Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; Grade 4- Life-threatening consequences; Grade 5- Death related to AE. AEs which start or worsen on or after T-cell infusion are classified as treatment emergent. SAEs are subset of AEs. Results for maximum severity grades has been presented., Up to approximately 21 months|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI), An AESI may be of scientific and medical concern related to the treatment, monitored, and rapidly communicated by investigator to sponsor. AESIs included events of Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS), Haematopoietic cytopenias (including pancytopenia and aplastic anaemia), Graft versus Host Disease (GvHD), Immune Effector-Cell Associated Neurotoxicity Syndrome (ICANS), Guillain-Barre Syndrome (GBS), Pneumonitis and treatment-related inflammatory response at tumor site(s) and Neutropenia Grade 4 lasting more than or equal to 28 days. AEs which start or worsen on or after T-cell infusion are classified as treatment emergent., Up to approximately 21 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Assessed by Investigator According to RECIST v1.1, Overall response rate (ORR) defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) via investigator assessment per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) version 1.1 relative to the total number of participants in the analysis population. Partial response (PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Complete response (CR) was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 millimeters (mm). Confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using the exact (Clopper-Pearson) method., Up to approximately 21 months|Duration of Response (DoR), DoR is defined as the interval of time (in months) from first documented evidence of the confirmed response (PR or CR) as assessed by local investigators to the date of disease progression per RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, among participants with a confirmed response of PR or CR. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm., Up to approximately 21 months|Maximum Transgene Expansion (Cmax) of GSK3901961, Cmax was defined as peak cell expansion during the interventional phase. Blood samples were collected to measure Cmax., Up to 21 days|Time to Cmax (Tmax) of GSK3901961, Tmax was defined as time to peak cell expansion during the interventional phase. Blood samples were collected to measure Tmax., Up to 21 days|Area Under the Time Curve From Zero to Time 28 Days AUC(0-28), Area under the cell expansion-time curve from first T-cell infusion to Day 28. Blood samples were collected to measure AUC (0-28 days)., Up to 28 days
This study is a substudy of the Master record - (209012) NCT04526509.