A Study to See if Memantine Protects the Brain During Radiation Therapy Treatment for a Brain Tumor
This phase III trial compares memantine to placebo in treating patients with primary central nervous system tumors. Memantine may block receptors (parts of nerve cells) in the brain known to contribute to a decline in cognitive function. Giving memantine may make a difference in cognitive function (attention, memory, or other thought processes) in children and adolescents receiving brain radiation therapy to treat a primary central nervous system tumors.
Central Nervous System Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Cognitive Assessment|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Memantine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
The mean slope of the Cogstate composite Z score (an average of detection, Identification, and one-back Z scores, each Z score calculated using Cogstate age-based normative data), We will estimate the difference in mean Cogstate composite Z score slopes (reflecting change in Cogstate composite Z scores from baseline to 12 months post baseline taking into account measurements at those time points as well as end of radiation therapy and 3 and 6-months post baseline between the treatment and control arms using a generalized estimating equation model with compound symmetry correlation structure and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up-to 12 months post baseline
Intelligence quotient score (assessed by age-appropriate Wechsler Intelligence Scale), We will estimate the difference in mean standard scores across treatment arms and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 12-months post baseline|Processing speed score (assessed by processing speed/attention subtests of age-appropriate Wechsler Intelligence Scale), We will estimate the difference in mean standard scores and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 12-months post baseline|Verbal memory score (assessed by Children's Memory Scale [CMS] Stories subtest, or the Wechsler Memory Scale - Fourth Edition [WMS-IV] Logical Memory I and II subtests, depending on age), We will estimate the difference in mean standard scores across treatment arms and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 12-months post baseline|Visual memory score (assessed by CMS or WMS-IV Faces subtest scores, Immediate and Delayed, depending on age), We will estimate the difference in mean standard scores across treatment arms and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 12-months post baseline|Working memory score (assessed by Digit Span subtests of age-appropriate Wechsler Intelligence Scales), We will estimate the difference in mean standard scores across treatment arms and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 12-months post baseline|Verbal score (assessed by the California Verbal Learning Test - Children's Version [CVLT-C] or 2nd Edition [CVLT-II] based on age, using the List A Trials 1-5 Total T-score), We will estimate the difference in mean standard scores and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 12-months post baseline|Visual learning score (assessed by CMS Dot Locations subtest or WMS-IV Symbol Span subtest, depending on age), We will estimate the difference in mean standard scores across treatment arms and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 12-months post baseline|Executive functioning score (assessed by the Cognitive Regulation Index of the Brief Rating Inventory of Executive Function), We will estimate the difference in mean standard scores across treatment arms and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., At 12-months post baseline|Disease-free survival, We will estimate the hazard ratio comparing time-to-relapse of primary brain tumor or death due to any cause in the memantine relative to placebo arm and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up-to 36 months post baseline|Overall survival, We will estimate the hazard ratio comparing time-to- death due to any cause in the memantine relative to placebo arm and will provide a point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval., Up-to 36 months post baseline|Quantitative volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements of critical brain regions (hippocampus, frontal cortex), We will estimate a correlation coefficient between changes in quantitative volumetric MRI measurements for the three regions of interest and changes in Cogstate composite Z scores (from baseline to 12 months post baseline)., At 12-months post baseline|Number of patients who consented to biobanking, The number of patients who agree to be in the biobanking part of the study future research., Up-to 12 months post baseline|Composite cognitive score decline (0.5 standard deviation or more decline in Cogstate composite score relative to baseline), We will estimate the proportion of patients who experience composite cognitive score decline in the memantine and placebo arms and will provide corresponding 95% confidence intervals., At 12-months post baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy, as measured by the slope of change of the Cogstate composite Z score from baseline to 12 months, of oral memantine hydrochloride (memantine) administered for a period of 6 months, when compared to placebo, in children ages 4-18 receiving cranial or craniospinal radiotherapy for primary central nervous system tumors.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if memantine is associated with improved cognitive function as measured for participants in the optional Children's Oncology Group (COG) Standardized Battery at 12 months.

II. To determine if memantine is associated with change in cognitive function versus (vs.) placebo as measured by Cogstate composite score at end of radiation therapy (RT), 3 and 6 months.

III. To determine if memantine is associated with differences in cognitive function vs. placebo as measured by Cogstate composite score at 24 and 48 months for participants in the optional COG Standardized Battery.

IV. To correlate early cognitive changes (end of RT, 3, 6, 12 months Cogstate composite score) with late cognitive function (24 and 48 months Cogstate composite score).

V. To correlate COG Standardized Battery scores to Cogstate composite scores at 12, 24, and 48 months.

VI. To estimate the 36-month disease-free and overall survival (of primary brain tumor) after memantine treatment compared to placebo.

VII. To correlate changes in quantitative volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements of critical brain regions with cognitive function over time.

VIII. To evaluate impact of memantine versus placebo on molecular biomarkers associated with cognitive decline after radiotherapy.

IX. To determine whether oral memantine, when compared to placebo, is associated with reduction in the incidence of decline of composite Cogstate score at 12 months in children ages 4-18 receiving cranial radiotherapy for primary central nervous system tumors.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive memantine hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) for week 1 and then twice daily (BID) for weeks 2-24 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also complete cognitive testing over 20-30 minutes at baseline, end of radiation therapy, and at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 48 months. Patients undergo MRI and may optionally undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD for week 1 and then BID for weeks 2-24 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also complete cognitive testing over 20-30 minutes at baseline, end of radiation therapy, and at 3, 6, 12, 24, and 48 months. Patients undergo MRI and may optionally undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.