Screening of Cancer Patients to Assess Impact of COVID-19
The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of COVID -19 in the cancer patient population. This will be done by looking at the rate of asymptomatic COVID-19 infection in cancer patients receiving cancer therapy, as well as their immune response.

This is a sub-study of the U-DEPLOY study: UHN Umbrella Trial Defining Coordinated Approach to Pandemic Trials of COVID-19 and Data Harmonization to Accelerate Discovery. U-DEPLOY helps to facilitate timely conduct of studies across the University Health Network (UHN) and other centers.
Covid-19|Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Nasopharyngeal (NP) swab
Rate of asymptomatic COVID-19 infection among cancer patients receiving cancer therapy, 12 months
Rate of sero-conversion in cancer patients, 12 months|Describe the clinical course of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients, 12 months
Feasibility of using patient saliva for detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus in patients with impaired saliva production, 12 months|Compare the evolution of immune and proteomic profile of asymptomatic COVID-19 negative and positive cancer patients, 12 months
Given increasing community transmission and the possibility of asymptomatic carriage of virus, it is important to study whether asymptomatic shedders of virus are playing a role in propagating the pandemic. There is currently little data available regarding cancer patients, yet, this population may be particularly susceptible to the COVID-19 infection.

Despite the cancer patient population being at higher risk of COVID-19, no systematic screening has been established and no biomarkers have been identified to determine which patient is at higher risk.

This study will screen patients on active cancer therapy for COVID-19 as a standard of care or a research nasopharyngeal test. Blood samples may also be taken to assess any patient response to the virus and optional saliva samples may also be taken to assess the feasibility of using patient saliva for detection of SARS-CoV-2 virus in patients with impaired saliva production (eg. secondary to cancer treatments such as radiation, chemotherapy, and/or surgery).