MART-1 Antigen With or Without TLR4 Agonist GLA-SE in Treating Patients With Stage II-IV Melanoma That Has Been Removed by Surgery
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies melanoma antigen recognized by T-cells 1 (MART-1) antigen with or without toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) agonist glucopyranosyl lipid A-stable oil-in-water emulsion (GLA-SE) in treating patients with stage II-IV melanoma that has been removed by surgery. Vaccines made from MART-1a peptide or antigen may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Giving TLR4 agonist GLA-SE with MART-1 antigen may help increase the immune response to MART-1a antigen.
Stage IIA Skin Melanoma|Stage IIB Skin Melanoma|Stage IIC Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIA Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIB Skin Melanoma|Stage IIIC Skin Melanoma|Stage IV Skin Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: MART-1 Antigen|DRUG: TLR4 Agonist GLA-SE|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Immune response, A patient is considered to have achieved an immune response if there is a 2-fold or more increase from pre-treatment levels in the absolute number of vaccine peptide-specific (MART-1a-specific) CTL as measured by tetramer staining, or if the frequency of MART-1a-specific CTL is initially undetectable (\< 0.05% of CD8 T cells) and becomes detectable during the vaccine treatment period. The proportion of successes will be estimated and the exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true immune response rate will be calculated., Up to 24 months
Adverse event rate, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 24 months
Immunological efficacy of the vaccine preparations against tumor antigen MART-1a will be described as a function of the vaccine immune adjuvant, as measured by the frequency and IFN gamma production of vaccine-peptide specific CTL, Additional markers of immune activation will be described as a function of each vaccine preparation. Each factor will be plotted against time. Each graph will be visually inspected for trends across time. The number of patients with at least a 2-fold change in the number of cells/plasma concentration or with a level that goes from undetectable to detectable after the 1st course will be determined. The marker profile of those who derived an immune response and those who did not will be tabled to visually compare and contrast the pattern of marker-specific responses between these patient groups., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the immune response of each immunization regimen to determine an optimal regimen in terms of immune response to recommend for phase II testing.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the adverse events profile of each immunization regimen.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the immunological efficacy of the vaccine preparations as measured by the frequency and interferon (IFN) gamma production of peptide-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive MART-1 antigen and TLR4 antagonist GLA-SE intramuscularly (IM) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive MART-1 antigen IM on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, stage II patients are followed up at 10 weeks and then at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months and stage III-IV patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, and 24 months.