Dynamic Contrast Enhanced MRI in Patients With Advanced Breast or Pancreatic Cancer With Metastases to the Liver or Lung
This phase I trial studies the side effects of dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) in patients with advanced breast or pancreatic cancer with metastases to the liver or lung. Diagnostic procedures, such as DCE-MRI, may help measure a patient's response to treatment
Acinar Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Duct Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Liver Metastases|Lung Metastases|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging|OTHER: pharmacological study|BIOLOGICAL: tumor-homing peptide iRGD
Change in volume transfer coefficient (Ktrans) during DCE-MRI with tumor-homing peptide iRGD compared to a baseline DCE-MRI without tumor-homing peptide iRGD, Analyzed using a multi-compartment pharmacokinetic modeling algorithm already implemented at multiple clinical trial sites for breast and body imaging., Baseline to 15 days
The potential for tumor-homing peptide iRGD to enhance uptake of key anti-cancer agents, Analyzed using a multi-compartment pharmacokinetic modeling algorithm already implemented at multiple clinical trial sites for breast and body imaging., Up to 15 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the ability of iRGD (tumor-homing peptide iRGD) to elicit changes in metastatic breast cancer vascular permeability as measured by dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) MRI.

II. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of iRGD. III. To explore the safety of iRGD.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore changes in water diffusion status in tumors due to iRGD as measured by diffusion-weighted (DWI) MRI.

II. To explore the ability of iRGD to elicit changes in primary pancreatic cancer vascular permeability as measured by dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) MRI.

III. To explore changes in water diffusion status in primary pancreatic cancer due to iRGD as measured by DWI-MRI.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo DCE-MRI on day 1 and undergo tumor-homing peptide iRGD DCE-MRI on day 2.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 15 days.