Lung Cancer Screening by Artificial Intelligence Device
Lung cancer screening is currently not recommended in non-smokers due to paucity of evidence. Emerging evidence suggests that first-degree family history is a strong risk factor for lung cancer in Asian non-smokers. In Asia, lack of resource is a major challenge in successful implementation of lung cancer screening. Artificial intelligence (AI) is a promising tool to overcome this resource. In this study, we aim to study the clinical utility and demonstrate the feasibility of using an AI assisted programme for lung cancer screening in Asian non-smokers with a positive family history. This is a single-arm non-randomized lung cancer screening study. 1000 non-smokers, age 50 to 75 year old, with a first-degree family history of lung cancer, will be enrolled. Participants will undergo low does computed tomography (LDCT) of thorax and blood taking at enrolment. LDCT films will be interpreted by AI softwares for presence of lung nodules. Participants with lung nodules will be further investigated and followed up according to the risk of malignancy. The primary endpoint is the prevalence of early-staged lung cancer detected by first-round LDCT thorax in this population.
Lung Cancer
DEVICE: Lung-SIGHT
The prevalence of early-staged lung cancer detected by first-round LDCT thorax (T0) in a high-risk non-smoker population, 2 years
Sensitivity of AI-assisted programme in lung nodule detection and monitoring compared to radiologist assessment, 2 years|Rate of invasive workup and incidence of associated complications., 2 years|Prevalence of lung cancer detected by second-round LDCT (T1) in patients with negative first-round LDCT, 2 years|Diagnostic accuracy and discrimination ability of plasma-based fragmentomic assay in detection of lung cancer via assessment of sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value, 2 years|To determine the quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained through screening, 2 years
Lung cancer screening is currently not recommended in non-smokers due to paucity of evidence. Emerging evidence suggests that first-degree family history is a strong risk factor for lung cancer in Asian non-smokers. In Asia, lack of resource is a major challenge in successful implementation of lung cancer screening. Artificial intelligence (AI) is a promising tool to overcome this resource. In this study, we aim to study the clinical utility and demonstrate the feasibility of using an AI assisted programme for lung cancer screening in Asian non-smokers with a positive family history. This is a single-arm non-randomized lung cancer screening study. 1000 non-smokers, age 50 to 75 year old, with a first-degree family history of lung cancer, will be enrolled. Participants will undergo low does computed tomography (LDCT) of thorax and blood taking at enrolment. LDCT films will be interpreted by AI softwares for presence of lung nodules. Participants with lung nodules will be further investigated and followed up according to the risk of malignancy. The primary endpoint is the prevalence of early-staged lung cancer detected by first-round LDCT thorax in this population.