Improving Cognition and Behavior in Pediatric Cancer Survivors Using a Novel Mindful Attention Training
This pilot study will evaluate the cognitive and behavioral outcomes of using a novel, adaptive attention training in pediatric cancer survivors.
Pediatric Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Adaptive Attention Training|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires
Proportion of participants who complete study, The proportion of participants who completed the study procedures will be reported by study cohort., Up to 8 weeks
Change in mean performance on a Continuous Performance Task (CPT) over time, The CPT is a 23-minute task, where participants are instructed to respond to target stimuli (squares at the top of the screen) and withhold responses to non-target stimuli (squares at the bottom of the screen). Performance will be quantified as: (1) mean reaction times, (2) standard deviation of reaction times (RTV), and (3) d-prime (comparing correct target detections or 'hits' to incorrect non-target detections or 'false alarms')., Up to 8 weeks
Change in sub-test scores on the Adaptive Cognitive Evaluation (ACE) neuropsychological battery, The ACE is a mobile cognitive assessment tool, which includes a battery of cognitive control tests for rapid tests of cognition. The sub-tests (or 'modules') in ACE are adapted from standardized tasks to rapidly assess various aspects of cognition, including attention, memory, and multitasking., Up to 8 weeks|Change in mean performance on a computerized Math Fluency Test, To assess math fluency, participants solve simple math problems (e.g., addition, subtraction, multiplication) over a 3-minute period. Performance is measured as the number of correct responses., Up to 8 weeks|Change in mean performance on a computerized Reading Fluency Test, To assess reading fluency, participants indicate whether sentences are 'True' or 'False' over a 3-minute period. Performance is measured as the number of correct responses., Up to 8 weeks|Change in mean scores on the Mindful Attention Awareness Scale (MAAS) over time, The MAAS is a 15-item scale designed to assess a core characteristic of mindfulness by asking participants to respond to statements about everyday experiences on a scale from 1="Almost always" to 6="Almost never". The total score is obtained by averaging the scores of the 15 items, to generate a total score for from 1-6. Greater scores are indicative of a greater level of mindfulness., Up to 8 weeks|Change in mean scores on the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-Being Scale (WEMWBS) over time, The 14-item scale WEMWBS addresses mental well-being by asking participants to respond to individual items on a scale from 1="None of the time" to 5="All of the time". The total score is obtained by summing the scores for each of the 14 items, to generate a total score ranging from 14-70. Lower scores are indicative of a lower overall well-being., Up to 8 weeks|Change in mean scores on a modified Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) Scale over time, The modified ISI consists of the first three of seven items in the full ISI scale. These three questions ask participants about the the severity of their insomnia symptoms on a scale from 0="None" to 4="Very". The total score is obtained by summing the scores for each of the three items, to generate a total score from 0-12. Higher scores are indicative of more insomnia problems., Up to 8 weeks|Change in mean scores on the Child Self-Control Rating Scale (parent rating) over time, The Child Self-Control Rating Scale consists of 33 items that assess children's self control. Parents respond to individual items on a 7-point scale. The total score is obtained by summing the scores for each of the 33 items, with a higher score reflecting greater lack of child self-control., Up to 8 weeks|Change in mean performance on a Delay Discounting Task over time, The Delay Discounting task is an untimed task, where participants choose between smaller, more immediate rewards and larger, more delayed rewards. Performance will be quantified by comparing choices between smaller/immediate rewards and larger/delayed rewards as the rate of delay discounting (the hyperbolic discounting index)., Up to 8 weeks
Pediatric cancer survivors (PCS) often experience attentional difficulties that have downstream effects on their quality of life, academic achievement, and future occupational attainment. As such, the primary goal of this project is to examine the outcomes of a novel, mindful attention training in this population and assess the feasibility of recruitment, retention, and adherence. Specifically, PCS will be randomly assigned to one of two adaptive attention training groups ('Engage') and complete tasks on the device for up to 8 weeks. Participants will also complete pre- and post-training assessments of cognition and behavior.

An additional cohort of no-contact participants will be asked to complete the assessments at baseline and end of study only to assess the feasibility and reliability of the assessment measures. This cohort will be enrolled separately and not randomized.

The investigators hypothesize that completion of 'Engage' training for the randomized cohorts will result in enhanced attentional control beyond the active comparator group that extends to other aspects of cognition in PCS.