Perspectives of Subcutaneous Velcade at Home of Patients With Myeloma.
In the present study, we have trained 10 patients in subcutaneous self-administration of Velcade. After their training, patients will alternately receive their treatment in the hospital and at home by self-administration. In keeping with common practice, a nurse contacts the patients by telephone before 9.00 am on the day of treatment to ensure that the patient is physically "fit" to receive the medication and to discuss any side effects. To highlight the advantages and disadvantages of the changed treatment practice from the perspectives of both patients and healthcare professionals, data is collected from two consecutive semi-structured interviews with n = 10 patients and n = 1 focus group interview of the healthcare professionals involved. Moreover, time registration of medication administration both at the hospital and in the patients' home is done. The qualitative data will be analyzed via the method of condensation and continual quantitative data will form the basis of a cost-benefit analysis.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib
Patients experience of self-administration of Velcade, Qualitative interviews with all 10 included patients, Through study completion, from 01. dec. 2019 until 01. jun. 2022
Organizational perspective, Patients and health professionals (including pharmacy staff) registration of time spend on treatment on all 10 included patients., Through study completion, from 01. dec. 2019 until 01. jun. 2022|Health care perspective, Focus group interview with healthcare professionals involved in the treatment., Through study completion, from 01. dec. 2019 until 01. jun. 2022|Financial perspective, Evaluation of financial savings on home treatment including healthcare salaries and transportation., Through study completion, from 01. dec. 2019 until 01. jun. 2022
In the present study, we have trained 10 patients in subcutaneous self-administration of Velcade. After their training, patients will alternately receive their treatment in the hospital and at home by self-administration. In keeping with common practice, a nurse contacts the patients by telephone before 9.00 am on the day of treatment to ensure that the patient is physically "fit" to receive the medication and to discuss any side effects. To highlight the advantages and disadvantages of the changed treatment practice from the perspectives of both patients and healthcare professionals, data is collected from two consecutive semi-structured interviews with n = 10 patients and n = 1 focus group interview of the healthcare professionals involved. Moreover, time registration of medication administration both at the hospital and in the patients' home is done. The qualitative data will be analyzed via the method of condensation and continual quantitative data will form the basis of a cost-benefit analysis.