Cabozantinib S-malate in Treating Patients With Relapsed Osteosarcoma or Ewing Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well cabozantinib s-malate works in treating patients with osteosarcoma or Ewing sarcoma that has grown or returned (come back) after a period of improvement. Cabozantinib s-malate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and may also prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow.
Metastatic Ewing Sarcoma|Metastatic Osteosarcoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Stage III Osteosarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Osteosarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Osteosarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Osteosarcoma AJCC v7|Unresectable Ewing Sarcoma|Unresectable Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Non-progression at 6 Months - Osteosarcoma, Non-progression defined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) as per the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria, revised RECIST v1.1.

As per revised RECIST v1.1, progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., At 6 months|Objective Response Within 6 Months of Treatment Onset - Osteosarcoma, Objective response defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria, revised RECIST v1.1.

As per revised RECIST v1.1, CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumour marker level of non-target lesions. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis).

As per revised RECIST v1.1, PR is defined as a at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, and non-PD/not all evaluated non-target lesions, or, CR of target lesions and non-CR/non-PD/not evaluated non-target lesions.

As per revised RECIST v1.1, progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Within 6 months of treatment onset|Objective Response Within 6 Months of Treatment Onset - Ewing Sarcoma, Objective response defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria, revised RECIST v1.1.

As per revised RECIST v1.1, CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumour marker level of non-target lesions. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis).

As per revised RECIST v1.1, PR is defined as a at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, and non-PD/not all evaluated non-target lesions, or, CR of target lesions and non-CR/non-PD/not evaluated non-target lesions.

As per revised RECIST v1.1, progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Within 6 months of treatment onset
Best Overall Response, Best objective response rate, defined as the rate of CR or PR confirmed ≥ 4 weeks after initial documentation, as determined by investigator review of tumor assessments using RECIST v1.1. Complete or partial responses may be claimed only if the criteria for each are met at a subsequent time point as specified in the protocol (generally 4 weeks later). The BOR is the best response recorded from the start of the study treatment until the end of treatment

* Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm
* Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters
* Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions and also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm
* Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, From the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence. assessed up to 2 years.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression (clinical and/or radiological) or death, whichever occurs first. Radiological progression is assessed by local review of tumor assessments using RECIST v1.1 criteria : at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions and also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to the time of death., Time from start of treatment to the time of death, assessed up to 2 years|Non-progression at 6 Months - Ewing Sarcoma, Non-progression defined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) as per the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria, revised RECIST v1.1.

As per revised RECIST v1.1, progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., At 6 months|Incidence of Adverse Events, Number of patients who had at least one adverse event related to the treatment. Adverse events were assessed using CTCAE (5.0)., Safety profile was continuously followed during treatment and up to 30 days after the last Cabozantinib dose or until the start of a new antitumor therapy, whichever occurs first.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the antitumor activity of cabozantinib s-malate (cabozantinib) for Ewing sarcomas, in terms of 6-month objectives response as per the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Revised (RECIST version \[v\]1.1).

II. To evaluate the antitumor activity of cabozantinib for osteosarcoma, in terms of 6-month objective response (complete response, partial response) and 6-month non-progression (complete response, partial response and stable disease), as per RECIST v1.1.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. 6-month objective response. (Ewing sarcoma only) II. Best overall response (as per the revised RECIST v1.1). (Ewing sarcoma and osteosarcoma) III. 1- and 2-year progression-free survival. (Ewing sarcoma and osteosarcoma) IV. 1- and 2-year overall survival. (Ewing sarcoma and osteosarcoma) V. Cabozantinib safety. (Ewing sarcoma and osteosarcoma) VI. To assess the ability of metabolic tumor response as measured by fludeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) at the end of one cycle of treatment to predict progression-free survival (PFS). (Ewing sarcoma and osteosarcoma) VII. Translational research: to determine and compare tumor expression of MET, phosphorylated (phosphor)-MET and circulating levels of HGF, soluble MET (sMET), VEGF-A, and soluble VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) (sVEGFR2) prior to and following administration of cabozantinib. (Ewing sarcoma and osteosarcoma)

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib s-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.