Evaluation of the Ability of CT-based Finite Element Analysis (CTFEA) to Predict Fractures in Patients With Metastases: a Randomized Controlled Study.
Patients with metastases to proximal femur, who are evaluated fr the risk of pathologic fracture in order to decide on preventive fixation vs follow-up constitute the study population. The patients will be randomized in two arms. First arm - the decision of treatment will rely on conventional decision algorithm including specialist judgement and Mirels' score. Second arm- the decision on treatment will be supported by CTFEA analysis of bone structure and quantitative simulation-based estimate of fracture risk, in addition to the conventional decision algorithm. Operation rates, pathologic fracture rates and additional secondary outcomes will be compared between the two study arms.
Bone Neoplasm of Hip (Diagnosis)|Orthopedic Disorder|Bone Metastases|Proximal Femoral Metaphyseal Abnormality
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CTFEA|OTHER: Conventional decision algorithm
Primary efficacy hypothesis, To compare proportion of patients undergoing surgery in the treatment group vs the control group., four years
Composite endpoint, pathological fracture during 4 months of follow up OR death within 30 days after prophylactic surgery in patients who underwent surgery OR surgical complications within 4 months of follow up: infection, re-operation, mechanical failure, 4 months
All-cause mortality, All-cause mortality, 4 years|Number of patients who became unable to ambulate, Number of patients who became unable to ambulate for any reason. Inability to ambulate will be determined by an orthopedic surgeon from anamnesis and physical examination., 4 years|Number of participants who sustained a pathological fracture, Number of participants who sustained a pathological fracture. Diagnosis of pathological fracture will be determined by an orthopedic surgeon based on imaging., 4 months|Death, Death within 30 days after prophylactic surgery, 30 days|Surgical complications, Infection, re-operation, mechanical failure within 4 months of follow up, 4 months|Number of surgeries avoided, The number of surgeries "avoided" - presented only in the group of Intervention and only in patients without the safety endpoint within 4 months of follow up. Specifically, number of patients without the safety endpoint in whom a physician changed his/her decision to operate based on the CT-based FE analysis., 4 months|Agreement of two measures of fracture risk, Agreement between the pathological fracture risk estimated using Mirels' scale and the pathological fracture risk CT-based FE simulation analysis. Risk levels determined by either of the estimates: low, medium, high, One week|Patients who denied surgery, Number of patients who did not undergo a prophylactic surgery, in whom the CT-based FE analysis showed a risk above moderate for fractures in future and who developed a fracture during the 4 months of follow-up - calculated in both study groups., 4 months|Complications that could be prevented by CTFEA, Number of patients who underwent a prophylactic surgery, in whom the CT-based FE analysis showed a mild-moderate risk of a fracture and who devel-oped a complication (as defined in a composite safety endpoint) - calculated in both study groups, One month
Patients with metastases to proximal femur, who are evaluated fr the risk of pathologic fracture in order to decide on preventive fixation vs follow-up constitute the study population. The patients will be randomized in two arms. First arm - the decision of treatment will rely on conventional decision algorithm including specialist judgement and Mirels' score. Second arm- the decision on treatment will be supported by CTFEA analysis of bone structure and quantitative simulation-based estimate of fracture risk, in addition to the conventional decision algorithm. Operation rates, pathologic fracture rates and additional secondary outcomes will be compared between the two study arms.