PV-10 vs Chemotherapy or Oncolytic Viral Therapy for Treatment of Locally Advanced Cutaneous Melanoma
This is an international multicenter, open-label, randomized controlled trial (RCT) of single-agent intralesional PV-10 versus systemic chemotherapy or intralesional oncolytic viral therapy to assess treatment of locally advanced cutaneous melanoma in patients who (1) are not candidates for targeted therapy and (2) are not candidates for an immune checkpoint inhibitor. Subjects in the comparator arm will receive the Investigator's choice of dacarbazine (DTIC), temozolomide (TMZ) or intralesional talimogene laherparepvec as determined by Investigator preference and standard of care in the Investigator's country or region. Effectiveness will be assessed by comparison of progression-free survival (PFS) between all intent-to-treat (ITT) subjects in the two study treatment arms.
Cutaneous Melanoma
DRUG: PV-10 (10% rose bengal disodium)|DRUG: Dacarbazine, temozolomide or talimogene laherparepvec
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was estimated via Kaplan-Meier analysis using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) criteria. Subjects who did not have an event of progression or death were censored at their last assessment date.

Assessment of progression was performed by the sponsor based on review of lesion measurement and clinical progression data reported by each investigator. Events signaling progression included increase in size and/or number of study lesions, onset of visceral metastatic disease, and death. For target lesions (assigned prior to randomization), complete response (CR) required disappearance of all target lesions; partial response (PR) required \>= 30% decrease in sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all target lesions; progressive disease (PD) required \>=20% increase in SLD of target lesions. Non-target lesions were followed for CR, PD, or non-CR/non-PD status using equivalent thresholds. Progression occurred when PD was observed in either target or non-target lesion., Assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression, withdrawal of consent, or study termination; progression detected between formal assessments was documented at the time of detection; median follow-up time for PFS was 26.6 weeks, maximum was 125.8 weeks.
Complete Response Rate (CRR), CRR was assessed using RECIST v1.1 criteria, and required disappearance of all target and non-target lesions., Assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression, withdrawal of consent, or study termination; median follow-up time for CRR was 26.6 weeks, maximum was 125.8 weeks.|Duration of Complete Response (DCR), DCR was estimated via Kaplan-Meier analysis for participants achieving a complete response, and was defined as the interval from first complete response to disease progression or death; responders who did not have an event of progression or death were censored at their last assessment date. Complete response was assessed using RECIST v1.1 criteria, and required disappearance of all target and non-target lesions., Assessed every 12 weeks until disease progression, withdrawal of consent, or study termination; median follow-up time for DCR was 26.7 weeks, maximum was 77.7 weeks.|Overall Survival (OS), OS was documented at 12 week intervals commencing on withdrawal from active study participation. Documentation was made by subject clinic visit or other personal contact, telephonic contact, review of medical records, or other unequivocal evidence of survival status. OS was estimated via Kaplan-Meier analysis, and was defined as the interval from randomization to death; subjects who did not have an event of death were censored at their last assessment date., Assessed every 12 weeks upon withdrawal from active study participation until death, withdrawal of consent, or study termination; median follow-up time for survival was 82.4 weeks, maximum was 167.0 weeks.|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Safety and tolerability were assessed by monitoring the frequency, duration, severity and attribution of adverse events and evaluating changes in laboratory values and vital signs., Assessed every 4 weeks until 28 days after last treatment; median duration of treatment was 11.8 and 9.5 weeks in each treatment group, respectively.
Change in Domain Scores From Baseline Using the Patient Reported Skindex-16 Instrument, In this exploratory endpoint, changes in Skindex-16 self-assessment scores were evaluated vs Day 1 baseline domain scores: symptom domain (items 1-4); emotional domain (items 5-11); and functioning domain (items 12-16). The Skindex-16 instrument solicits response to the extent of bother during the preceding week by 16 items (e.g., itching, hurting, worry, impact on daily activities), using a score from 0 (never bothered) to 6 (always bothered) for each item. Item scores are transformed to 0 to 100 scale, and domain scores are calculated as the average of the item scores comprising the domain. A lower domain score at baseline signifies lower impact of that domain; a decrease in domain score from baseline signifies improvement in that domain. Median baseline score and change from baseline over the study interval is presented for each domain., Assessed at baseline (Day 1 at start of study treatment) and at the end of each treatment cycle (every 4 or 6 weeks) until disease progression, withdrawal of consent, or study termination; median follow-up time was 26.6 weeks, maximum was 125.8 weeks.
Subjects will be randomized using a 2:1 treatment allocation (i.e. two-thirds of the subjects will receive PV-10).

Subjects in the comparator arm who have completed at least 1 cycle of study treatment and who meet the study protocol definition of disease progression but do not have evidence of visceral metastases will be eligible to enter the crossover portion of the study and receive PV-10. Subjects crossing over must meet all study inclusion and exclusion criteria for clinical laboratories, thyroid function, concurrent or intercurrent illness and pregnancy at the time of crossover.

Assessment of progression will be performed by an Independent Review Committee (IRC) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) ver. 1.1 criteria. Events signaling progression include increase in size and/or number of lesions, distant or nodal disease progression, or death. All secondary endpoints involving disease response and progression will be based on the IRC determination.

An interim assessment of efficacy and safety will be performed by the IRC when 50% of the events required for the primary endpoint have occurred.