Radiotherapy in Patients With Metastatic Esophageal Cancer Responding to PD-1 Inhibitor Plus Chemotherapy
The treatment efficacy for stage IVb esophageal cancer has been improved through chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy recently.

On this basis, the investigators intend to conduct a prospective, multicenter phase II clinical trial to assess whether radiotherapy could further improve the survival of patients with metastatic esophageal cancer responding to PD-1 Inhibitor plus chemotherapy.

Accompanied tissue samples, blood samples and urine samples will be analyzed by molecular biological detection (Including Whole Exome Sequencing and proteomics) to explore potential biomarkers for predicting outcomes, efficacy and toxicity.
Esophageal Neoplasm Metastatic|Esophageal Cancer Stage IVb
DRUG: TP (Paclitaxel with cisplatin or carboplatin) or PF (Fluoropyrimidine with cisplatin or carboplatin) regimen depended on investigator's choice.|BIOLOGICAL: PD-1 inhibitor|RADIATION: Consolidation Radiation|RADIATION: Salvage Radiation
EFFICACY:1-year overall survival probability, Overall survival was defined as the time from first dose to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the final analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up. OS is reported for all participants of the Intent-To-Treat (ITT) population. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to calculated the 1-year survival probability., 12 month
EFFICACY: Median progression-free survival (PFS), Median progression-free survival (PFS), was defined as the time from first dose to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., 12 month|SAFETY: Acute toxicity rate, Acute toxicity Rate, was defined as the frequency of toxicities related to the treatment, which arises within one month after administration, according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event,Version 5.0 (CTC AE5.0)., One month within the end of one specific treatment|SAFETY: Late toxicity rate, Late toxicity rate, was defined as the frequency of toxicities related to the treatment, which arises after one month after administration, according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event,Version 5.0 (CTC AE5.0)., One month after the end of one specific treatment.|QUALITY OF LIFE: Change From Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Subscale Scores in Participants, The score of the participants evaluated by The EORTC core quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30). All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to100.A high scale score represents a higher response level. Thus a high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning., 24 month|QUALITY OF LIFE: Change From Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-OES18 Subscale Scores in Participants, The score of the participants evaluated by The EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire - Oesophageal Cancer Module (EORTC QLQ-OES18). All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to100.A high scale score represents a higher response level. Thus a high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning., 24 month
Biomarkers for the predicting of efficacy, To explore the dynamic changes of circulating tumor DNA (the frequency of specific mutations by Next-generation sequencing Methodology) from baseline, before and after radiotherapy., 24 month
Esophageal cancer (EC) is one of the most common carcinomas with high morbidity and mortality worldwide. More than 30% of the patients were stage IV when diagnosed. Fluoropyrimidine plus platinum-based chemotherapy is recommended as first-line treatment for patients with metastatic EC for approximately four decades, however, only minimal improvement has been reached in overall survival (OS).

Recently, immune checkpoint inhibitors have shown effective antitumor activity in patients with unresectable, advanced or metastatic EC. Several randomized trials have demonstrated the PD-1 inhibitor could further improve the OS in patients with advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) on the basis of chemotherapy. Chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy has become one of the the standard treatment modality for metastatic EC.

As reported, for the patients with metastatic lung cancer or EC, locoregional radiotherapy could improve survival, especially in those who responding to systemic therapy. However, high-level evidence is still needed to assess whether these patients can benefit from local radiotherapy.

The efficacy of immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy is obviously better than that of chemotherapy alone. On this basis, locoregional radiotherapy may help those patients with metastatic EC responding to systemic therapy improve local control, relieve the local symptoms, and even improve survival.

Therefore, the investigators intend to conduct a prospective, multicenter phase II trial to assess the efficiency and safety of radiotherapy with chemotherapy and immunotherapy for patients with metastatic EC. Accompanied tissue samples, blood samples and urine samples will be analyzed by molecular biological detection to explore potential biomarkers for predicting outcomes, efficacy and toxicity.