IL-15 Super Agonist ALT-803 to Treat Relapse Of Hematologic Malignancy After Allogeneic SCT
This is a multi-center, phase I/II clinical trial for patients who have relapsed more than 60 day after allogeneic transplant for a hematologic malignancy. The study consists of two phases. The dose finding phase is a modified version of a phase I trial and the extended phase is a modified version of a phase II trial.

The primary objective of the dose finding phase is to determine the maximum tolerated, minimum efficacious dose (MTD/MED) of a interleukin-15 (IL-15) super agonist complex (ALT-803) when given once weekly for 4 weeks in the outpatient setting. The study will follow a standard 3+3 design of dose escalation for toxicity with an added feature of stopping early if efficacy is confirmed. There are six dose levels of ALT-803 for to determine the MTD/MED: 1, 3, 6, 10, 20, and 30 mcg/kg.

Once the MTD/MED for ALT-803 is determined, this cohort will be used in the extended phase. The primary goal of this extended phase is to study the potential efficacy of ALT-803 in this patient population. Efficacy will be measured using rates of remission induction. An optimal Simon's two-stage design will be used in this phase. Stage 1 will enroll 14 patients (including the 6 patients treated at the MTD/MED during the dose finding phase). If 3 or more of these 14 patients respond to ALT-803, the trial will move to stage 2 and enroll an additional 23 patients. If 2 or fewer respond, the study will terminate enrollment early.
Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML)|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL)|Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS)|Lymphoma|Myeloma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia (CML)
BIOLOGICAL: ALT-803
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) Events, The Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as (during first treatment cycle only):

* any treatment-emergent grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity lasting more than 48 hours (refer to section 6.2.1.1 for full definition)
* any treatment-emergent grade 4 or 5 non-hematologic toxicity of any duration
* grade III or IV acute GVHD within 6 weeks after the first ALT-803 dose Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) is defined as the dose level where ≤ 1 out of 6 patients has DLT during the first treatment cycle, 4 weeks|Number of Participants Experiencing Potential Efficacy of ALT 803, The potential efficacy of ALT-803 in this patient population is measured by the responses based on bone marrow examination 1 and 3 months after the last dose of ALT-803.

Response was defined as follows: for AML and myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) using the International Working Group modified criteria, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and multiple myeloma using the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria, and acute lymphoblastic leukemia using protocol-specified criteria., 4 months
Number of Participants With Excessive Toxicity, To evaluate the safety of the ALT-803 when administered on this schedule. Excessive toxicity is defined as having a grade 3-5 non-hematologic, non-relapse and non-infectious toxicity (except fevers alone) based on the NCI's CTCAE version 4., 4 weeks|Number of Participants With Incidence of Acute Graft Versus Host Disease, 100 days|Number of Participants With Incidence of Chronic Graft Versus Host Disease, 1 year
This is a multi-center, phase I/II clinical trial for patients who have relapsed more than 60 day after allogeneic transplant for a hematologic malignancy. The study consists of two phases. The dose finding phase is a modified version of a phase I trial and the extended phase is a modified version of a phase II trial.

The primary objective of the dose finding phase is to determine the maximum tolerated, minimum efficacious dose (MTD/MED) of a interleukin-15 (IL-15) super agonist complex (ALT-803) when given once weekly for 4 weeks in the outpatient setting. The study will follow a standard 3+3 design of dose escalation for toxicity with an added feature of stopping early if efficacy is confirmed. There are six dose levels of ALT-803 for to determine the MTD/MED: 1, 3, 6, 10, 20, and 30 mcg/kg.

Once the MTD/MED for ALT-803 is determined, this cohort will be used in the extended phase. The primary goal of this extended phase is to study the potential efficacy of ALT-803 in this patient population. Efficacy will be measured using rates of remission induction. An optimal Simon's two-stage design will be used in this phase. Stage 1 will enroll 14 patients (including the 6 patients treated at the MTD/MED during the dose finding phase). If 3 or more of these 14 patients respond to ALT-803, the trial will move to stage 2 and enroll an additional 23 patients. If 2 or fewer respond, the study will terminate enrollment early.