Karydakis Flap Versus Burow's Triangle Advancement Flap in the Surgery of Sacrococcygeal Pilonidal Sinus Disease
In this study, we aim to compare the Karydakis flap and Burow's Triangle Advancement Flap techniques applied in the surgical treatment of pilonidal sinus in terms of complications, time to return to normal activity, and recurrence.
Pilonidal Sinus|Sacrococcygeal Pilonidal Disease
PROCEDURE: Karydakis Flap Procedure|PROCEDURE: Burow's Triangle Advancement Flap Procedure
Pain score according to the visual analogue scale, Postoperative pain after surgery ( measured by the visual analog score with 1 being minimum score and 10 being maximum score), 1-3 days|Postoperative wound healing time, Number of weeks of complete duration epithelialization of the wound, 4 to 6 weeks|Procedure-related complications, Number of complications; related to the surgery, Type (wound dehiscence, seroma, hematoma, surgical site infection), 1 to 6 weeks|Time to return to normal activity, The number of weeks it passes the patient to return to normal activity., 4 to 6 weeks
Recurrence of Pilonidal Sinus, Number of patients with recurrence pilonidal disease, 6 - 12 months
Pilonidal sinus disease (PSD) is a chronic and inflammatory disease that is often generated in the sacrococcygeal region. It is commonly observed in puberty and young adult period and usually affects men. The incidence of pilonidal sinus disease is 26:100,000 and rising globally.

PSD risk factors contain young age, obesity, male gender, Mediterranean ethnicity, deep natal cleft, hairiness, and poor hygiene. It has been shown that PSD incidence increases in parallel with body weight. The precise etiology of pilonidal sinus disease is unclear. Many conservative and surgical methods have been described in treating pilonidal sinus disease. After the sinus area is excised, excision with laying open (secondary healing), excision with primary closure, marsupialization, and various flap techniques can be applied in surgical treatment. The primary principle in treatment is to ensure that the patient returns to normal life as soon as possible and eliminate recurrences. Although the best surgical technique in treating pilonidal sinus is controversial, the ideal operation should be cost-effective, simple to perform, short hospital stay, and have a low recurrence and complication rates. There is no definite consensus on an ideal technique yet.

In this study, we aim to compare the Karydakis flap and Burow's Triangle Advancement Flap techniques applied in the surgical treatment of pilonidal sinus in our clinic in terms of complications (wound dehiscence, seroma, hematoma, surgical site infection), time to return to normal activity, and recurrence.