Venetoclax and Ibrutinib in Treating Patients With Chronic or Small Lymphocytic Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well venetoclax and ibrutinib work in treating patients with chronic or small lymphocytic leukemia. Venetoclax may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Ibrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving venetoclax and ibrutinib may help control chronic or small lymphocytic leukemia.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Venetoclax
Best response (complete response /complete response with incomplete recovery) of combined ibrutinib and venetoclax, For each cohort, the best response (complete response /complete response with incomplete recovery) rate will be estimated along with the exact 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 months after treatment
Incidence of toxicities, Will be defined as prolonged neutropenia or thrombocytopenia lasting \> 42 days; febrile neutropenia; hospitalization due to infection; early death; major bleeding due to thrombocytopenia. Will be monitored in each disease cohort separately using the Bayesian method of Thall, Simon and Estey. Safety data will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 6 weeks of treatment|Time to response with combination of ibrutinib and venetoclax, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method in each cohort., Up to 8 years|Overall survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method in each cohort., Up to 8 years|Progression-free survival, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method in each cohort., Up to 8 years|Complete response/complete response with incomplete recovery rate in each subgroups of patients, Will be defined by IGHV mutation or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) subtype. Will be estimated along with the exact 95% confidence interval., Up to 8 years
Changes in immunological biomarkers, Will be summarized over time and will be assessed using linear or non-linear mixed effect models as appropriate., Up to 8 years|Changes in molecular biomarkers, Will be summarized over time and will be assessed using linear or non-linear mixed effect models as appropriate., Up to 8 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Estimate therapeutic activity (best response \[complete response (CR)/complete response with incomplete recovery (CRi)\]) of combined ibrutinib and venetoclax in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic leukemia (SLL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of this combination strategy. II. To estimate the time to best response with this combination. III. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

IV. To test pharmacodynamic endpoints and molecular interactions between these two drugs.

V. To assess the therapeutic activity (best response \[CR/CRi\]) in subgroups of patients defined by immunoglobulin heavy chain variable (IGHV) mutation or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) subtype.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To study immunological and molecular changes in the peripheral blood and the bone marrow in response to ibrutinib and venetoclax.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Beginning on day 1 of cycle 4, patients also receive venetoclax PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 27 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with residual disease or who are positive for minimal residual disease (MRD) after cycle 27 may continue treatment with ibrutinib.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months.