Vaccine Therapy Plus Sargramostim Following Chemotherapy in Previously Untreated Aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Vaccines may make the body build an immune response to kill cancer cells. Colony-stimulating factors such as sargramostim may increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help a person's immune system recover from the side effects of chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial of vaccine therapy plus sargramostim following chemotherapy in treating patients who have previously untreated aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: keyhole limpet hemocyanin|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|BIOLOGICAL: tumor cell-based vaccine therapy|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: mitoxantrone hydrochloride|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: vincristine sulfate
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the ability of recombinant idiotype immunotherapy to stimulate a specific immune response against the B cell idiotype of the malignant clone that constitutes the tumor in patients with previously untreated aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. II. Determine the safety and toxicity of this treatment regimen using Genitope Corporation's molecular rescue technology in this patient population.

OUTLINE: Patients receive induction chemotherapy consisting of cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) or cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone, vincristine, and prednisone (CNOP). Treatment repeats every 3 weeks until the maximal clinical response is achieved followed by 2 additional courses of consolidation therapy for up to a maximum of 6 courses. At 2-6 months following completion of chemotherapy, patients achieving adequate disease response receive vaccination consisting of recombinant tumor derived immunoglobulin idiotype with keyhole limpet hemocyanin conjugate subcutaneously (SQ) followed by sargramostim (GM-CSF) SQ, each at 2 separate sites on day 1. Patients receive GM-CSF alone on days 2-4. Vaccination repeats every 4 weeks for 4 doses, followed 3 months later by the fifth and final dose. Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter until disease progression.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Not specified