V503 in Chinese Girls 9-14 Years Old Versus Chinese Women 20-26 Years Old (V503-071)
This study aims to demonstrate that a 2-dose regimen of the 9-Valent Human Papillomavirus (9vHPV) vaccine (GARDASIL™9, V503) induces non-inferior competitive Luminex immunoassay (cLIA) geometric mean titers (GMTs) to each of the 9vHPV vaccine types in Chinese girls 9 through 14 years of age compared to a 3-dose regimen in Chinese women 20 through 26 years of age. The primary hypothesis is that a 2-dose regimen has a non-inferiority margin of 0.67 in the GMT ratio (girls vs. women) for each HPV type.
Papillomavirus Infections
BIOLOGICAL: 9vHPV vaccine
Stage I: Competitive Luminex immunoassay (cLIA) Geometric Mean Titers (GMTs) to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine, cLIA GMT to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine. The GMT for each HPV type will be reported in mMU/mL., One month after last dose (Up to Month 13)|Stage II: cLIA GMTs to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine in girls 9 through 14 years of age, cLIA GMT to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine in girls 9 through 14 years of age. The GMT for each HPV type will be reported in mMU/mL., Up to Month 84|Stage II: cLIA seropositivity percentages to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine in girls 9 through 14 years of age, cLIA seropositivity to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine in girls 9 through 14 years of age. The percentage of participants who are seropositive for each HPV type will be summarized., Up to Month 84
Stage I: cLIA seroconversion percentages to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine, cLIA seroconversion to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine. The percentage of participants who are seropositive for each HPV type will be summarized., One month after last dose (Up to Month 13)|Stage I: Immunoglobulin G Luminex immunoassay (IgG LIA) GMTs to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine at one month post last dose, IgG LIA GMT to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine at one month post last dose. The GMT for each HPV type will be reported in mMU/mL., One month after last dose (Up to Month 13)|Stage I: IgG LIA seroconversion percentages to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine, IgG LIA seroconversion to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine. The percentage of participants who are seropositive for each HPV type will be summarized., One month after last dose (Up to Month 13)|Stage I: Percentage of participants experiencing solicited injection-site adverse events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with study vaccine. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study vaccine or a protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the study vaccine or protocol-specified procedure. Solicited injection-site AEs such as erythema, swelling, pain, and induration at the injection site will be recorded., Day 1 through Day 8 following any study vaccination|Stage I: Percentage of participants experiencing solicited systemic AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with study vaccine. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study vaccine or a protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the study vaccine or protocol-specified procedure. Systemic AEs are those not categorized as injection-site AEs., Day 1 through Day 8 following any study vaccination|Stage I: Percentage of participants experiencing serious AEs (SAEs) Up to Month 13, A SAE is an AE that results in death, is life threatening, results in a persistent or significant disability or incapacity, results in or prolongs an existing hospitalization, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, or is another important medical event., Up to Month 13|Stage II: Percentage of participants experiencing SAEs Up to Month 84, A SAE is an AE that results in death, is life threatening, results in a persistent or significant disability or incapacity, results in or prolongs an existing hospitalization, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, or is another important medical event., Month 18 up to Month 84|Stage II: IgG LIA GMTs to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine in girls 9 through 14 years of age, IgG LIA GMT to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine in girls 9 through 14 years of age. The GMT for each HPV type will be reported in mMU/mL., Up to Month 84|Stage II: IgG LIA seropositivity percentages to 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine in girls 9 through 14 years of age, IgG LIA seropositivity to each of 9 vaccine types of 9vHPV vaccine in girls 9 through 14 years of age. The percentage of participants who are seropositive for each HPV type will be summarized, Up to Month 84
This study aims to demonstrate that a 2-dose regimen of the 9-Valent Human Papillomavirus (9vHPV) vaccine (GARDASIL™9, V503) induces non-inferior competitive Luminex immunoassay (cLIA) geometric mean titers (GMTs) to each of the 9vHPV vaccine types in Chinese girls 9 through 14 years of age compared to a 3-dose regimen in Chinese women 20 through 26 years of age. The primary hypothesis is that a 2-dose regimen has a non-inferiority margin of 0.67 in the GMT ratio (girls vs. women) for each HPV type.