Semaglutide Improves Metabolic Abnormalities and Fertility in Obese Infertile Women With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
To investigate the efficacy of semaglutide in obese infertile women of childbearing age with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), we design this prospective, randomized, open and controlled study. 75 obese infertile PCOS patients will be recruited and randomized into three groups: metformin, semaglutide and metformin+semaglutide, on the basis of calorie-restricted diet and physical exercise. All subjects will be treated for 12 weeks, and then stop taking the drug for at least 8 weeks to initiate ovulation induction or ovulation induction combined with artificial insemination. All subjects will be followed up for 24 weeks for pregnancy outcome. The primary endpoint of the study is the percentage of weight loss at 12 weeks of treatment. The secondary endpoints include HOMA-IR and androgen levels at 12 weeks of treatment, ovulation rate at 24 weeks of follow-up, clinical pregnancy rate and cumulative pregnancy rate, and depression, anxiety, diet and quality of life scores at 12 weeks of treatment.
PCOS (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome)|Semaglutide
DRUG: Metformin Hydrochloride 500 MG|DRUG: Semaglutide, 1.34 mg/mL|DRUG: Semaglutide, 1.34 mg/mL and Metformin Hydrochloride 500 MG|BEHAVIORAL: calorie-restricted diet|BEHAVIORAL: physical exercise
Percentage change in bodyweight at 12 weeks for semaglutide versus metformin, Difference between body weight at 12 weeks and baseline divided by baseline body weight, at the end of 12 weeks of treatment|Achievement of weight reduction of at least 5% at 12 weeks for semaglutide versus metformin, Proportion of patients with weight loss at least 5% at 12 weeks of treatment, at the end of 12 weeks of treatment
HOMA-IR at 12 weeks of treatment, compare HOMA-IR at 12 weeks of treatment among three groups, at the end of 12 weeks of treatment|testosterone level at 12 weeks of treatment, compare testosterone level at 12 weeks of treatment among three groups, at the end of 12 weeks of treatment|androstenedione level at 12 weeks of treatment, compare androstenedione level at 12 weeks of treatment among three groups, at the end of 12 weeks of treatment|FAI (Free Androgen Index) at 12 weeks of treatment, compare FAI at 12 weeks of treatment among three groups, at the end of 12 weeks of treatment
Depression score by self-rating depression scale (SDS）at 12 weeks of treatment, Zung self-rating depression scale (SDS) contains 20 items. Each item is divided into four grades according to the frequency of symptoms, of which 10 are positive and 10 are negative. Positive scoring question rated as 1, 2, 3 and 4 in turn and reverse scoring questions rated as 4, 3, 2 and 1. Add all the scores to get the total rough score, and then multiply the rough score by 1.25 to get the integral part as the standard score. The lower the score, the better. According to the criteria of Chinese population, the cut-off value of SDS standard score is 53 points, of which 53-62 points is mild depression, 63-72 points is moderate depression, and more than 73 points is severe depression. SDS standard score ≥ 50 indicates depressive symptoms. Depression severity is evaluated by cumulative score of each item/80. Those below 0.5 are not depressed; 0.5-0.59 is mild depression; 0.6-0.69 is moderate to severe; more than 0.7 is severe depression., at the end of 12 weeks of treatment|Anxiety score by self-rating anxiety scale (SAS）at 12 weeks of treatment, Zung self-reating anxiety scale (SAS) adopts a four-grade score, which is mainly used to assess the frequency of symptoms. The standard is: "1" means no or little time; "2" means sometimes; "3" means most of the time; "4" means most or all of the time. Of the 20 items, 15 items are stated in negative words, and scored in the order of 1-4 above. The remaining five items are stated in positive words and scored in reverse order of 4 to 1. The main statistical indicator of SAS is the total score. Add the scores of 20 items to get a rough score. Multiply the rough score by 1.25 and take the integer part to get the standard score. According to the criteria of Chinese population, the cut-off value of SAS standard score is 50 points, of which 50-59 points is mild anxiety, 60-69 points is moderate anxiety, and more than 70 points is severe anxiety., at the end of 12 weeks of treatment|Diet score by TFEQ-18 (three factor eating questionaire) at 12 weeks of treatment, The Three-Factor Eating Questionnaire Revised 18-item includes three dimensions of questions: non-controlled eating (9 items), cognitive restricted eating (6 items), and emotional eating (3 items). Uncontrolled eating refers to a tendency to lose control of excessive eating when feeling hungry or stimulated by external factors. Cognitive restriction refers to consciously limiting food intake to control weight or promote weight loss. Emotional eating refers to the tendency to overeat under some negative emotional conditions. Questions 1 to 18 are scored with 1 to 4 points. The total score of the three dimensions is the total score of the scale. The higher the score of each dimension of the questionnaire, the higher the tendency of uncontrolled eating, cognitive restriction of eating and emotional eating., at the end of 12 weeks of treatment|Quality of life score at 12 weeks of treatment, The World Health Organization Quality of Life (WHOQOL) - BREF can generate scores in four fields. The scale contains two independent analysis items: Q1 asks the individual's total subjective feelings about their own quality of life, and Q2 asks the individual's total subjective feelings about their own health status. The domain score is positive (that is, the higher the score, the better the quality of life). The domain score is obtained by calculating the average score of the items to which it belongs and multiplying by 4., at the end of 12 weeks of treatment|Ovulation rate at 24 weeks of follow-up after the end of treatment, Number of patients with ovulation after natural and ovulation induction treatment/total number of patients, at the end of 24 weeks of follow-up after the end of treatment|Clinical pregnancy rate at 24 weeks of follow-up after the end of treatment, Clinical pregnancy rate=clinical pregnancy cycles/transplantation cycles, at the end of 24 weeks of follow-up after the end of treatment|Cumulative pregnancy rate at 24 weeks of follow-up after the end of treatment, Cumulative pregnancy rate=number of all pregnant patients/total number of patients, at the end of 24 weeks of follow-up after the end of treatment
To investigate the efficacy of semaglutide in obese infertile women of childbearing age with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), we design this prospective, randomized, open and controlled study. 75 obese infertile PCOS patients will be recruited and randomized into three groups: metformin, semaglutide and metformin+semaglutide, on the basis of calorie-restricted diet and physical exercise. Metformin and semaglutide will be administered in a dose increasing mode, and then maintain until the end of 12 weeks, and metabolic related indexes will be evaluated. After 12 weeks of treatment, all subjects will stop taking the drug for at least 8 weeks to initiate ovulation induction or ovulation induction combined with artificial insemination. All subjects will be followed up for 24 weeks to evaluate the fertility related indicators. The primary endpoint of the study is the percentage of weight loss at 12 weeks of treatment. The secondary endpoints include HOMA-IR and androgen levels at 12 weeks of treatment, ovulation rate at 24 weeks of follow-up, clinical pregnancy rate and cumulative pregnancy rate, and depression, anxiety, diet and quality of life scores at 12 weeks of treatment.