Disitamab Vedotin Combined With Radiotherapy for Bladder Preservation
This is a prospective, open, single center clinical study of vidicizumab combined with local radiotherapy as bladder conserving therapy in patients with muscle invasive bladder urothelium cancer with HER-2 expression (IHC 2+or 3+). A total of 30 subjects were included in the study
Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Disitamab Vedotin|RADIATION: radiotherapy
Bladder-intact event-free survival, 1-year event free survival with intact bladder, 1 year
Pathologic Complete Response, Neoadjuvant therapy and postoperative pathology confirmed that the primary tumor was in complete remission (stage ypT0) and had no residual tumor cells, regardless of whether the regional lymph nodes were involved or not., 2 mouths
A total of 30 subjects were included in the study. Each subject underwent diagnostic bladder resection (TURBT) and imaging diagnosis, and biological samples such as blood, urine, and biopsy tissue were collected before treatment. After myometrial invasive bladder cancer with HER2 expression (IHC 2+or 3+) judged by pathological tissue, four cycles of neoadjuvant therapy with vedixizumab (2.0mg/kg) was first performed, and then bladder conserving therapy was performed by maximizing TURBT combined with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The patient will receive vidiximab combined with local radiotherapy after maximizing TURBT surgery. The subjects received a treatment cycle of six consecutive treatment cycles of vidixitol every two weeks, and simultaneously received one month of radiation therapy (SBRT, with a total dose of over 50 Gy in the bladder irradiation field). After completing the above treatment, tumor evaluation will be conducted through imaging and exfoliative cytology. After the completion of radiotherapy, the first tumor efficacy evaluation will be conducted. After the end of radiotherapy, tumor efficacy evaluation will be conducted every 6 weeks. Patients who are not tolerant to radiotherapy (evaluated by the researchers) will directly discontinue the medication.