Hypofractionated Online Adaptive Radiotherapy of Breast Cancer
The goal of this clinical trial is to explore the application of online adaptive radiotherapy in patients who receive moderate hypofractionated or ultrafractionated radiotherapy after breast cancer surgery. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Can online adaptive radiotherapy improve the accuracy of dose delivery?
* In patients undergoing online adaptive radiotherapy, how are the treatment-related toxicities and tumor control outcomes?

Participants will Receive moderate hypofractionated radiotherapy using online adaptive radiotherapy, a dose of 43.5Gy in 15 fractions or receive ultrafractionated radiotherapy using online adaptive radiotherapy, a dose of 26Gy in 5 fractions.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Moderate hypofractionated Radiation Treatment|RADIATION: Ultrafractionated Radiation Treatment
The dose coverage of target volume as assessed by planning tumor volume V100%, Planning tumor volume V100%, defined as the planning tumor volume receiving at least 100% of the prescribed dose (V100%), is used to evaluate the dose coverage of target volume., 3 months after radiotherapy
Treatment-related toxicity, Toxicity is evaluated by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0., Baseline; Every week during radiotherapy; 1 week, 2 weeks, 3/6/12/24 months after radiotherapy.|Local recurrence rate (LRR), LRR will be deducted from the local recurrence survival defined as the interval between date of surgery and the occurrence of local relapse., 3, 6, 12, 24 months after radiotherapy
Online Adaptive Radiotherapy (ART) is an evolution of image-guided radiotherapy that compresses the entire process of image acquisition, plan design, verification, and radiation delivery into approximately 10-30 minutes during which patients do not need to leave the treatment bed. Online ART features rapid image acquisition, automatic contouring and plan optimization supported by artificial intelligence. Body position deviation, breast soft tissue deformation, and organ movement in different treatment fractions can affect the accuracy of radiotherapy for breast cancer patients. Online adaptive radiotherapy is expected to have dosimetric advantages in terms of target coverage and organ-at-risk (OAR) dose reduction, thereby reducing treatment-related side effects while ensuring local tumor control.

Moderate hypofractionation (40-43.5Gy/15-16f/3w) has been shown to achieve equivalent local tumor control and patient survival compared to traditional fractionationated regimens (50Gy/25f/5w), and may even reduce acute and late toxicities. Currently, moderate hypofractionationated radiotherapy has been a first-line recommendation for whole breast irradiation following breast cancer surgery. In addition, the FAST-Forward trial evaluated a shorter regimen, the ultrafractionated whole breast radiotherapy (26Gy/5f/1w) and found that local tumor control and normal tissue toxicity were comparable to the moderate hypofractionationated regimen. The Royal College of Radiologists (RCR) has endorsed 5-fraction ultrafractionationated radiotherapy as a standard option for postoperative breast cancer radiation treatment in 2020.