A New Approach to Cervical Cancer Prevention in Kenya
The purpose of this study is to determine if the human papillomavirus (HPV) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) testing, performed on self-collected vaginal swabs, is acceptable, feasible, and sensitive and specific in detection of high-grade cervical lesions among Kenyan women, compared to the current standard of care.
Healthy
Percentage of women attending community meetings who will provide self-collected vaginal swabs for HPV DNA testing., anytime after informed consent up to 2 years|Percentage of women who attend clinic after providing self-collected vaginal swabs, any time after completion of self-collected vaginal swab (up to 2 years)
HPV DNA vaginal swab testing results, analyzed for the human reference gene (specimen adequacy), HPV 16/18, or any of 12 oncogenic HPV types., any time after after self-collected vaginal swab, up to 2 years|Visual inspection with acetic acid (VIA) testing results, Results reported as abnormal or normal, any time after VIA is performed, up to 2 years
The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that effective cervical cancer screening can be performed in a high percentage of women, using HPV DNA of self-collected vaginal samples, provided by women attending either chamas (community groups) or in their own homes. HPV DNA testing will be used to triage women for a secondary screen by visual inspection with acetic acid (VIA) in a local clinic. The investigators will determine if HPV DNA testing, performed on self-collected vaginal swabs, is acceptable, feasible, and sensitive and specific in detection of high-grade cervical lesions among Kenyan women, compared to the current standard of care. In addition, women will bring their children to be vaccinated against HPV in these community meetings, using the standard of care for the approved HPV vaccine available in Kenya.

The investigators will test this approach by completing the following Specific Aims:

Specific Aim 1: Determine the percentage of women attending community meetings who will provide self-collected vaginal swabs for HPV DNA testing.

Specific Aim 2. Following HPV DNA screening using self-collected swabs, determine the percentage of these women who will attend the local clinic.

Specific Aim 3. Evaluate the statistical correlation between HPV DNA testing of self-collected vaginal swabs and VIA (as all women in this pilot study will undergo VIA).