Brentuximab Vedotin and Lenalidomide in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory T-Cell Lymphomas
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with brentuximab vedotin in treating patients with T-cell lymphomas that have come back or do not respond to treatment. Monoclonal antibodies, such as brentuximab vedotin, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving brentuximab vedotin and lenalidomide may work better in treating patients with T-cell lymphomas.
CD30-Positive Neoplastic Cells Present|Folliculotropic Mycosis Fungoides|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides|Recurrent Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Mycosis Fungoides|Refractory Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Sezary Syndrome
DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) assessed per CTCAE v4.0, Up to 21 days
Rate of objective global response defined as proportion of patients achieving complete response (CR)/partial response (PR) that lasts at least 4 months, Will be estimated by the proportion of patients achieving a CR/PR that lasts at least 4 months, along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., At 4 months|Complete response defined as proportion of patients achieving CR according to Olsen criteria, Complete response rate will be estimated by the proportion of evaluable patients achieving CR, along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 1 year|Progression free survival (PFS) according to Olsen criteria, PFS will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error., From start of protocol treatment to first observation of disease relapse/ progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Change in pruritus visual analogue scale (VAS), Pruritus visual analogue scale (VAS) is a horizontal 100mm long line on which the patients make a vertical mark to indicate their subjective assessment of pruritus intensity; the patients are informed that the scale represents no pruritus (0 points) to severe pruritus (100 points). Changes from baseline over time in pruritus VAS score will be assessed using descriptive statistics., Up to 1 year|CD30 expression assessed by lymph node and/or skin biopsies via immunochemistry, Baseline CD30 levels in tissue samples by immunochemistry will be compared between responders and non-responders by Fisher's exact test. Log rank test will be used to explore the association between baseline CD30 levels in tissue samples with PFS., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/Recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of brentuximab vedotin in combination with lenalidomide in patients with relapsed/ refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL).

II. Assess safety and tolerability of brentuximab vedotin in combination with lenalidomide in patients with relapsed/ refractory CTCL.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the rate of objective global response that lasts at least 4 months (ORR4) , complete response (CR) rate, progression-free survival (PFS) of brentuximab vedotin in combination with lenalidomide in patients with relapsed/ refractory CTCL.

II. Estimate the rate and duration of clinically meaningful reduction in pruritus (CMRP).

III. Correlate response to baseline CD30 levels in tissue samples.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the response endpoints incorporating Lugano response criteria for patients with PET+ disease.

II. Explore temporal gene expression profile in skin/ blood samples that may predict response to combination therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

Patients receive brentuximab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then up to 12 months.