Transarterial Chemoembolization Versus Proton Beam Radiotherapy for the Treatment of Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Patients with liver tumor burden that exceeds Milan criteria are considered to receive one of the following locoregional treatments: transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), percutaneous ethanol injection and proton beam radiation (PBR). The goals of these treatments are to control tumor growth, to downstage tumor size to meet Milan criteria, and to improve survival. Patients who exceed the Milan criteria benefit from tumor downstaging as a result of treatment. Patients who meet Milan criteria benefit from tumor control to bridge them to liver transplantation. TACE is considered the most common locoregional treatment that is used to treat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Proton beam radiotherapy has been used in treating HCC in a few centers across the globe. Phase I and II trials showed a satisfactory safety and efficacy results. Loma Linda University Medical Center is one of these pioneering centers that use proton beam as a treatment for HCC. This is the first randomized trial in the medical field that will compare head-to-head the efficacy of TACE versus proton beam in treating HCC patients.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
PROCEDURE: Transarterial Chemoembolization|RADIATION: Proton Beam Radiotherapy
Two Year Overall Survival, Comparison between arms of the percentage of patient alive 2 years following study treatment., 24 Months
Patients with liver tumor burden that exceeds Milan criteria are considered to receive one of the following locoregional treatments: transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), percutaneous ethanol injection and proton beam radiation (PBR). The goals of these treatments are to control tumor growth, to downstage tumor size to meet Milan criteria, and to improve survival. Patients who exceed the Milan criteria benefit from tumor downstaging as a result of treatment. Patients who meet Milan criteria benefit from tumor control to bridge them to liver transplantation. TACE is considered the most common locoregional treatment that is used to treat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Proton beam radiotherapy has been used in treating HCC in a few centers across the globe. Phase I and II trials showed a satisfactory safety and efficacy results. Loma Linda University Medical Center is one of these pioneering centers that use proton beam as a treatment for HCC. This is the first randomized trial in the medical field that will compare head-to-head the efficacy of TACE versus proton beam in treating HCC patients.