Relative Bioavailability Study of Subcutaneous Injection Versus Intravenous Infusion of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Participants With Advanced Melanoma (MK-3475-555/KEYNOTE-555)
The purpose of this study is to characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) following single subcutaneous (SC) injection of pembrolizumab Dose A versus pembrolizumab Dose C in adults with advanced melanoma. Additionally, the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab SC injections will be assessed. And, finally, the efficacy of pembrolizumab intravenous (IV) infusion administration will be assessed.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab Dose C|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab Dose A|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab Dose B|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab Dose D
Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve (AUC) of Pembrolizumab - Cohort A, AUC was defined as a measure of pembrolizumab exposure that was calculated as the product of plasma drug concentration and time. Blood samples were collected at designated time points and a pharmacokinetic (PK) model based on historical intravenous pembrolizumab PK data were used for the determination of the AUC of pembrolizumab. Geometric least-square mean (GM) and 95% confidence intervals were derived from mixed-effects model performed on natural log-transformed values. Data were reported by treatment received., Cycles 1-3: Day 1 Predose and Days 2, 5, 10 and 15; Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose. Samples were also collected after IV infusion on Cycles 1-3: Day 1 ~0.5 hours after infusion and after SC injection on Days 3, 4, 6, and 7. Each cycle was 21 days.|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Pembrolizumab - Cohort A, Cmax was defined as the maximum concentration of pembrolizumab observed in plasma following a single dose. Blood samples were collected at designated time points and a PK model based on historical intravenous pembrolizumab PK data were used for the determination of the AUC of pembrolizumab. GM and 95% confidence intervals were derived from mixed-effects model performed on natural log-transformed values. Data were reported by treatment received., Cycles 1-3: Day 1 Predose and Days 2, 5, 10 and 15; Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose. Samples were also collected after IV infusion on Cycles 1-3: Day 1 ~0.5 hours after infusion and after SC injection on Days 3, 4, 6, and 7. Each cycle was 21 days.|Bioavailability (F) of Pembrolizumab - Cohort A, Blood samples were collected at designated time points and a population PK model based on historical intravenous pembrolizumab PK data was used for the determination of the F of pembrolizumab. Per protocol, an integrated population PK analysis was performed and combined data for Cohort A was reported., Cycles 1-3: Day 1 Predose and Days 2, 5, 10 and 15; Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose. Samples were also collected after IV infusion on Cycles 1-3: Day 1 ~0.5 hours after infusion and after SC injection on Days 3, 4, 6, and 7. Each cycle was 21 days.|Absorption Rate Constant (Ka) of Pembrolizumab - Cohort A, Blood samples were collected at designated time points and a population PK model based on historical intravenous pembrolizumab PK data was used for the determination of the Ka of pembrolizumab. Per protocol, an integrated population PK analysis was performed and combined data for Cohort A was reported. Participants in Cohort B weren't analyzed, per protocol., Cycles 1-3: Day 1 Predose and Days 2, 5, 10 and 15; Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose. Samples were also collected after IV infusion on Cycles 1-3: Day 1 ~0.5 hours after infusion and after SC injection on Days 3, 4, 6, and 7. Each cycle was 21 days.|Time of Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax) of Pembrolizumab - Cohort A, Blood samples were collected at designated time points for the determination of the Tmax of pembrolizumab., Cycles 1-3: Day 1 Predose and Days 2, 5, 10 and 15; Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose. Samples were also collected after IV infusion on Cycles 1-3: Day 1 ~0.5 hours after infusion and after SC injection on Days 3, 4, 6, and 7. Each cycle was 21 days.|Clearance (CL) of Pembrolizumab - Cohort A, Blood samples were collected at designated time points and a population PK model based on historical intravenous pembrolizumab PK data was used for the determination of the CL of pembrolizumab. Per protocol, an integrated population PK analysis was performed and combined data for Cohort A was reported., Cycles 1-3: Day 1 Predose and Days 2, 5, 10 and 15; Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose. Samples were also collected after IV infusion on Cycles 1-3: Day 1 ~0.5 hours after infusion and after SC injection on Days 3, 4, 6, and 7. Each cycle was 21 days.|Central Volume of Distribution (Vc) of Pembrolizumab - Cohort A, Blood samples were collected at designated time points and a population PK model based on historical intravenous pembrolizumab PK data was used for the determination of the Vc of pembrolizumab. Per protocol, an integrated population PK analysis was performed and combined data for Cohort A was reported., Cycles 1-3: Day 1 Predose and Days 2, 5, 10 and 15; Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose. Samples were also collected after IV infusion on Cycles 1-3: Day 1 ~0.5 hours after infusion and after SC injection on Days 3, 4, 6, and 7. Each cycle was 21 days.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) - Cohort B, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions). Responses were based upon blinded independent central review (BICR) per RECIST 1.1. ORR was reported for participants in Cohort B., Up to approximately 54 months
Number of Participants Positive for Pembrolizumab Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA) Formation - Cohort A, Blood samples were collected at designated time points for the determination of the presence or absence of pembrolizumab anti-drug antibodies. The number of participants who develop anti-pembrolizumab antibodies were assessed in Cycles 1 through Cycle 4. Per ADA immunogenicity analysis report, data from participants in Cohort A were reported combined across treatment cycles 1-4., Cycles 1-4 Day 1: Predose. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 64 days)|Number of Participants Who Experienced One or More Adverse Event (AEs) - Cohort A, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experienced one or more AEs in Cohort A was reported. Per protocol, data were reported by treatment received and AEs from Cycles 4-35 were reported separately., Up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE - Cohort A, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinued due to an AE in Cohort A were reported. Per protocol, data were reported by treatment received and data from Cycles 4-35 were reported separately., Up to approximately 23 months|Number of Participants With One or More Injection Site Signs and Symptoms After Subcutaneous Pembrolizumab Injection in Cycles 1-3 - Cohort A, Participants completed the Injection Site Signs and Symptoms Questionnaire, within 60 minutes after each pembrolizumab SC injection during Cycles 1-3. Participants rated any pain, itching, swelling and redness they experienced at the pembrolizumab SC injection site from "None" to "Severe". The number of participants who experienced an injection site sign or symptom was reported., Cycles 1-3 Day 1: Up to 60 minutes postdose. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 43 days)|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST 1.1 - Cohort B, For participants who demonstrated a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions as well as an absolute increase of at least a 5 mm in the sum of diameters. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. DOR was calculated for RECIST 1.1 based on BICR. DOR for Cohort B was reported., Up to approximately 54 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per to RECIST v1.1 Modified to Follow a Maximum of 10 Target Lesions and a Maximum of 5 Target Lesions Per Organ - Cohort B, PFS was defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Although RECIST 1.1 was modified to allow for a maximum of 10 target lesions in total and 5 per organ. Per protocol, PFS as assessed by BICR for participants in Cohort B was reported., Up to approximately 54 months|Overall Survival (OS) - Cohort B, OS was defined as the time from the first dose of study treatment to death due to any cause. Per protocol, OS for participants in Cohort B was reported., Up to approximately 54 months|Early Cycle AUC of Pembrolizumab - Cohort B, AUC was defined as a measure of pembrolizumab exposure that was calculated as the product of plasma drug concentration and time. Blood samples were collected at designated time points for the determination of the pembrolizumab AUC in participants in Cohort B during Cycle 1 (early cycle). Blood samples were also collected predose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 just prior to the next dose as the last sample (trough concentration) of Cycle 1. A cycle was 42 days., Cycle 1: Day 1 Predose and ~5 minutes post infusion and Day 22; Cycle 2: Predose. A Cycle was 42 days. (Up to approximately 6 weeks)|Steady State AUC of Pembrolizumab - Cohort B, AUC was defined as a measure of pembrolizumab exposure that was calculated as the product of plasma drug concentration and time. Blood samples were collected at designated time points for the determination of the pembrolizumab AUC in participants in Cohort B during Cycle 4 (steady state). Blood samples were also collected predose on Day 1 of Cycle 5 just prior to the next dose as the last samples (trough concentration) of Cycle 4. Each cycle was 42 days., Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose and ~5 minutes post infusion and Day 22; Cycle 5: Predose. A Cycle was 42 days. (Up to approximately 6 weeks)|Early Cycle Cmax of Pembrolizumab - Cohort B, Cmax was defined as the maximum concentration of pembrolizumab observed in plasma following a single dose. Blood samples were collected at designated time points for the determination of the pembrolizumab Cmax in participants in Cohort B during Cycle 1 (early cycle). Blood samples were also collected predose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 just prior to the next dose as the last sample (trough concentration) of Cycle 1. Each cycle was 42 days., Cycle 1: Day 1 Predose and ~5 minutes post infusion and Day 22; Cycle 2: Predose. A Cycle was 42 days. (Up to approximately 6 weeks)|Steady State Cmax of Pembrolizumab - Cohort B, Cmax was defined as the maximum concentration of pembrolizumab observed in plasma following a single dose. Blood samples were collected at designated time points for the determination of the pembrolizumab Cmax in participants in Cohort B during Cycle 4 (steady state). Blood samples were also collected predose on Day 1 of Cycle 5 just prior to the next dose as the last sample (trough concentration) of Cycle 4. Each cycle was 42 days., Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose and ~5 minutes post infusion and Day 22; Cycle 5: Predose. A Cycle was 42 days. (Up to approximately 6 weeks)|Early Cycle Minimum Plasma Concentration (Cmin) of Pembrolizumab - Cohort B, Cmin was defined as the minimum concentration of pembrolizumab observed in plasma following a single dose. Blood samples were collected at designated time points for the determination of the pembrolizumab Cmin in participants in Cohort B during Cycle 1 (early cycle). Blood samples were also collected predose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 just prior to the next dose as the last sample (trough concentration) of Cycle 1. Each cycle was 42 days., Cycle 1: Day 1 Predose and ~5 minutes post infusion and Day 22; Cycle 2: Predose. A Cycle was 42 days. (Up to approximately 6 weeks)|Steady State Cmin of Pembrolizumab - Cohort B, Cmin was defined as the minimum concentration of pembrolizumab observed in plasma following a single dose. Blood samples were collected at designated time points for the determination of the pembrolizumab Cmin in participants in Cohort B during Cycle 4 (steady state). Blood samples were also collected predose on Day 1 of Cycle 5 just prior to the next dose as the last sample (trough concentration) of Cycle 4. Each cycle was 42 days., Cycle 4: Day 1 Predose and ~5 minutes post infusion and Day 22; Cycle 5: Predose. Each Cycle was 42 days. (Up to approximately 6 weeks)|Number of Participants Who Experienced One or More AEs - Cohort B, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experienced one or more AEs in Cohort B was reported., Up to approximately 54 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE - Cohort B, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinued due to an AE in Cohort B were reported., Up to approximately 26 months
This study consists of two cohorts. Participants in Cohort A are randomized to one of six treatment sequences which will include 2 cycles of pembrolizumab administered via subcutaneous injection and 1 cycle of intravenous (IV) infusion, followed by up to 32 cycles (up to \~2 years) of pembrolizumab administered via IV infusion (each cycle is 21 days). Participants in Cohort B will receive pembrolizumab via IV infusion on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle for up to 18 cycles, up to \~ 2 years. Each cycle is 42 days.