Bortezomib, Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Liposome, and Dexamethasone Followed by Thalidomide and Dexamethasone With or Without Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma
RATIONALE: Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or stopping them from dividing. Thalidomide may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking blood flow to the cancer. Giving bortezomib together with doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome and dexamethasone followed by thalidomide, dexamethasone, and bortezomib may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well giving bortezomib together with doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome and dexamethasone followed by thalidomide and dexamethasone with or without bortezomib works in treating patients with multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm
DRUG: bortezomib|DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: thalidomide
Disease Response, The response of myeloma to BDDTD will be assessed by standard electrophoretic and immunofixation tests of blood and urine for a monoclonal protein (M protein), and bone marrow aspirate and biopsy. These tests will be performed at enrollment and at the conclusion of therapy., 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the efficacy and safety of bortezomib, pegylated doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome, and dexamethasone followed by thalidomide and dexamethasone with or without bortezomib in patients with symptomatic high-risk or primary resistant multiple myeloma.

OUTLINE: Patients receive BDD comprising bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11; pegylated doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome IV over 60-90 minutes on day 4; and oral dexamethasone on day 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, and 12. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients achieving response to BDD receive oral thalidomide on days 1-28 and oral dexamethasone on days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients experiencing stable or progressive disease on BDD receive oral thalidomide on days 1-28; oral dexamethasone on days 1, 2, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 12, and 17-21; and bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.