Stereotactic Pelvic Adjuvant Radiation Therapy in Cancers of the Uterus.
Advanced technology has enabled radiation oncologists to more accurately and precisely target radiation to areas at risk while maximally sparing healthy tissue. Furthermore, there is growing evidence demonstrating both safety and efficacy for SBRT. We propose that these advantages are translatable to the adjuvant treatment of endometrial cancer. We submit that a prescription dose of 30 Gy in 5 fractions, which equates to a 2 Gy equivalent dose (i.e an EQD2) (α/β = 10 Gy) of 48 Gy, compares favorably to the EQD2 delivered standardly for adjuvant treatment (44.25 Gy via 45Gy/25Fx; 50 Gy at vaginal surface for vault brachytherapy) and therefore should be effective and safe dose in the adjuvant setting. Through precision delivery and careful dosimetry the treatment should be safe and well tolerated with minimal impact on patient quality of life.
Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Serous Carcinoma|Clear Cell Carcinoma|Carcinosarcoma|Dedifferentiated Carcinoma
RADIATION: Image-guided adjuvant pelvic radiotherapy
Assess the acute urinary and bowel toxicities, Acute urinary and bowel toxicities associated with adjuvant SBRT treatment in the setting of high-risk endometrial cancer will be assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Baseline to 2 years post-treatment.
Advanced technology has enabled radiation oncologists to more accurately and precisely target radiation to areas at risk while maximally sparing healthy tissue. Furthermore, there is growing evidence demonstrating both safety and efficacy for SBRT. We propose that these advantages are translatable to the adjuvant treatment of endometrial cancer. We submit that a prescription dose of 30 Gy in 5 fractions, which equates to a 2 Gy equivalent dose (i.e an EQD2) (α/β = 10 Gy) of 48 Gy, compares favorably to the EQD2 delivered standardly for adjuvant treatment (44.25 Gy via 45Gy/25Fx; 50 Gy at vaginal surface for vault brachytherapy) and therefore should be effective and safe dose in the adjuvant setting. Through precision delivery and careful dosimetry the treatment should be safe and well tolerated with minimal impact on patient quality of life.