Microbial Diversity Between Inflamed and Non-inflamed Skin of Patients With Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Induced Dermatitis
This study determines microbial diversity between inflamed and non-inflamed skin of patients with immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced dermatitis. Skin has millions of bacteria. When treated with an immunotherapy agent, skin issues like a rash are common, occurring in up to 45% of patients. This study finds out if the type of bacteria on skin is different between the affected and unaffected skin in patients who have this treatment-related rash and also compares the immune cells found in the skin tissue to those seen in the blood.
Genito-Urinary Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection(Punch Biopsy)
Association between skin microbial diversity and immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-induced dermatitis, Microbial diversity will be estimated by the Shannon Index., Up to 1 year
Skin microbial diversity, Will be associated with response to therapy. The non-flamed skin of responders versus non-responders will be compared against change in Shannon Index. Both parametric and non-parametric tests will be performed on the data as well as its log-transformation., Up to 1 year|Abundances of certain skin bacteria in lesion, Will be associated with a higher rate of dermatologic toxicity with ICI. Similar to the evaluation of microbial diversity, will evaluate the concentrations of specific bacteria of inflamed as compared to non-inflamed skin of a similar phenotype (e.g. sebaceous, moist, or dry). This will entail both an individual bacteria abundance evaluation and clustering analysis., Up to 1 year|Specific skin bacteria, Will be associated with higher response to ICI. Will evaluate specific bacteriomic differences between the responders and non-responders via individual bacteria abundance assessment and clustering analysis. Response will be defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and assessed at the time of each skin biopsy. This will entail both an individual bacteria abundance evaluation and clustering analysis., Up to 1 year|Tissue and peripheral immune cell phenotypes of ICI-induced dermatitis (I), Will use immunohistochemistry to aid in characterizing the dermatologic microenvironment as follows:

will use immunohistochemistry to aid in characterizing the dermatologic microenvironment. The Human Cytokine 30-plex protein assay (Invitrogen) will be used to characterize the plasma levels of cytokines in pg/mL., Up to 1 year|Tissue and peripheral immune cell phenotypes of ICI-induced dermatitis (II), Will use immunohistochemistry to aid in characterizing the dermatologic microenvironment as follows:

will use immunohistochemistry to aid in characterizing the dermatologic microenvironment. Fluorochrome-labeled antibodies will be used to characterize the number of myeloid cells., Up to 1 year|Tissue and peripheral immune cell phenotypes of ICI-induced dermatitis (III), Will use immunohistochemistry to aid in characterizing the dermatologic microenvironment as follows:

will use immunohistochemistry to aid in characterizing the dermatologic microenvironment. EasySep PE-selection kit will be used to characterize the number of T cells., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if skin microbial diversity (estimated by the Shannon Index) significantly differs between inflamed and non-inflamed skin from patients who have immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI)-induced dermatitis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate if certain bacterial species and strains are present in higher concentrations of inflamed versus non-inflamed skin of patients with ICI-induced dermatitis.

II. To compare the immune cell phenotypes of inflamed and non-inflamed skin from patients who have ICI-induced dermatitis.

III. To characterize the immune cell phenotype in the peripheral blood in patients who have ICI-induced dermatitis.

IV. To elucidate any association between the skin microbial diversity and response to immunotherapy, characterized by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria (e.g., durable complete response \[CR\] versus partial response \[PR\] versus stable disease \[SD\] versus primary progressive disease).

V. To ascertain if higher concentrations of certain bacterial species are associated with a response to immunotherapy, characterized by both RECIST and immune response criteria.

VI. To evaluate associations between the non-inflamed skin flora and cancer subtypes (e.g., renal cell carcinoma, bladder cancer, lung cancer).

VII. To examine if skin microbiome is associated with specific demographic characteristics such as age and gender.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo punch biopsies of inflamed and non-inflamed skin and a blood sample collection.