Prognosis of Hematological Cancer Patient Underwent Mechanical Ventillation
This observational cohort aimed to re-evaluate the outcome of hematologic cancer patients admitted to the intensive care unit of Mansoura oncology center through a cohort study as regards their need for mechanical ventilation during two years.
Hematological Malignancy|Acute Respiratory Failure|Mechanical Ventilation
PROCEDURE: Mechanical ventilation
Survival, Continuing to live, through study completion, an average of 30 days after admission to intensive care unit
Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score, Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) Score, up to 24 hours after admission to the intensive care unit|Simplified Acute Physiology Score II, Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS II), up to 24 hours after admission to the intensive care unit|Mode of mechanical ventilation, synchronised intermittent, pressure-controlled, volume-controlled, pressure support, continuous positive airway pressure, volume guarantee, adjusted pressure release ventilation, or adaptive proportional assist ventilation, up to 24 hours after admission to the intensive care unit|lowest Pa02/FiO2, PaO2 "arterial oxygen tension"/FiO2 "inspired fraction of oxygen" ratio, up to 24 hours after admission to the intensive care unit|Reason for need of ventilatory support, Advanced malignancy, respiratory muscle weakness, respiratory failure, lung metastasis, coma, sepsis, multi-organs failure, up to 24 hours after admission to the intensive care unit
Associated comorbidities, Like as sepsis, acute respiratory distress syndorme, or leukopenia, up to 24 hours after admission to the intensive care unit|Cancer status, Early or advanced stage, up to 24 hours after admission to the intensive care unit
It has been believed for many years that the scene of cancer patients requiring mechanical ventilation is frustrating. The needed life support measures drain much of health resources and add a significant burden on the patient's family. Many factors have been responsible for the high mortality rates among hematologic cancer patients admitted to intensive care unit. Among of these factors, the invasive treatments that are frequently employed in today's intensive care unit. These procedures give chance for development of severe infection and multiple organ failure which are common events in immune-compromised patients (e.g. neutropenia) and in those exposed to chemotherapy. The most common form of organ failure in those patients is acute respiratory failure which is a major predictor of mortality in that population. The prognosis of such failure may vary depending on its causes and severity, co morbidity, associated acute organ failure and characters of the underlying malignancy. After the recent advances in the field of intensive care and shedding light on the benefits of the noninvasive ventilation in immune-compromised patients, the overall survival rate of cancer patients admitted to intensive care unit are improving.