Effects of Vitamin D Status and Multiple Mega-dose Supplementation on Health Care Disparities in Perioperative Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma Receiving Hepatectomy
High concentrations of parathyroid hormone (PTH) are common in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study is aimed to investigate effects of vitamin D status and its multiple mega-dosage supplementation on PTH and clinical outcomes in HCC patients before and after hepatectomy. It's a single-center, prospective, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled study for 120 eligible subjects. The subjects will receive consecutively 3-day intervention treatments from 7th day before surgery. 30-day postoperative mortality, postoperative complications, and laboratory data will be evaluated.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Liver Function|Postoperative Complications
OTHER: Vitamin D|OTHER: Placebo
Whether there is an association between 25(OH)D and PTH: positive or negative association , or no association, During the study period|Ratio of liver failure, 7 days pre- OP (day -7)|Ratio of liver failure, 1 day pre- OP (day -1)|Ratio of liver failure, 1 day post- OP (day 1)|Ratio of liver failure, 1 day before discharge
25(OH)D status, Baseline (day -7), day -1, day 1 and 1 day before discharge|Prevalence of high PTH, Baseline (day -7), day -1, day 1 and 1 day before discharge|Prevalence of hypercalcemia, Baseline (day -7), day -1, day 1 and 1 day before discharge|Prevalence of hypomagnesemia, Baseline (day -7), day -1, day 1 and 1 day before discharge|30-day mortality, day 1 post-OP and 1 day before discharge|Clinical outcomes, Including level of C-reactive protein and white blood cell (WBC) count, day 1 post-OP and 1 day before discharge|Complications after surgery, Including in-hospital infectious complications, Dindo-Clavien classification, volume of ascites, duration of ascites, intra-abdominal abscess, postoperative haemorrhage, pleural effusion, wall abscess, and eventration., day 1 post-OP and 1 day before discharge
High concentrations of parathyroid hormone (PTH) are common in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study is aimed to investigate effects of vitamin D status and its multiple mega-dosage supplementation on PTH and clinical outcomes in HCC patients before and after hepatectomy. It's a single-center, prospective, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled study for 120 eligible subjects. The subjects will receive consecutively 3-day intervention treatments from 7th day before surgery. 30-day postoperative mortality, postoperative complications, and laboratory data will be evaluated.