Maximum Tolerable Concentration of abnobaVISCUM Fraxini Intravesically in Patients With Superficial Bladder Cancer
The aim of this phase Ib/IIa study is to investigate the maximum tolerable concentration of abnobaVISCUM® Fraxini for intravesical instillation in patients with superficial bladder cancer. Secondary objectives are the local and systemic tolerability, the influence on tumor remission and the influence on the one-year recurrence rate.
Superficial Bladder Cancer
DRUG: abnobaVISCUM Fraxini
Maximum tolerable concentration of abnobaVISCUM Fraxini for intravesical instillation, The primary objective is to investigate the maximum tolerable concentration of abnobaVISCUM Fraxini for intravesical instillation in patients with superficial bladder cancer. The treatment schedule included 6 weekly instillations., 6 weeks
Local and systemic tolerability of different concentrations of abnobaVISCUM Fraxini for intravesical instillation, Secondary objectives are to investigate the local and systemic tolerability of different concentrations of abnobaVISCUM Fraxini for intravesical instillation. Main variables of safety analysis are adverse events, vital signs and clinical laboratory tests., 6 weeks|Influence on remission and influence on the one year recurrence rate of abnobaVISCUM Fraxini for intravesical instillation, Secondary objectives are to investigate the influence on remission and influence on the one year recurrence rate measured by histological examination of biopsies of the marker lesion, cytology and cystoscopy., up to 1 year
A dose-escalation-study according ICH/GCP (International Conference on Harmonisation/Good Clinical Practice) with different concentrations of abnobaVISCUM® Fraxini is conducted in two hospitals in Germany and Egypt. Patients with superficial bladder cancer TaG1/G2 or T1G1/G2 are enclosed after TUR-B (transurethral resection bladder). The tolerability of the different concentrations is assessed after weekly instillations into the urinary bladder for 6 weeks. A direct antitumoral effect is assessed on a single marker tumor left in the bladder after a complete TUR of all other lesions according a study design established by the EORTC-GENITO-URINARY GROUP (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer). A re-TUR is conducted after 12 weeks. Tumor response is measured by biopsy of the marker lesion and by cytology. Safety of the instillations is measured by analysis of adverse events, vital signs and clinical laboratory tests. After treatment of a cohort is finished a safety evaluation is conducted to decide about the increase to the next dosage.