Trial to Improve Outcomes in Patients With Resected Pancreatic Cancer (Azacitidine)
To improve progression free survival in high risk patients with resected pancreatic adenocarcinoma who have node positive disease, margin positive disease, and/or elevation in CA 19-9 treated with CC-486 (oral azacitidine) as compared to observation after completion of adjuvant therapy.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: oral azacitidine|OTHER: Observation
Progression-free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time from randomization until visible recurrence on any imaging modality, a confirmed biopsy, or death. Individuals lost to follow-up prior to having an event will be censored at the time of the last scan or biopsy., 25 months
Response Rate as Assessed by Number of Participants With Partial or Complete Response, Response rate (partial response or complete response) to first-line chemotherapy when given after visible disease recurrence in patients primed with CC-486 compared to observation. Partial and complete responses were assessed by standard of care radiology reads and documented scan interpretations., 11 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization until death. Individuals lost to follow-up prior to death will be censored at the time of last physician contact., 47 months
This trial is for patients with resected pancreatic adenocarcinoma who have concluded adjuvant therapy or were deemed unable to receive adjuvant therapy with an elevated CA19-9 or node positive or margin positive disease. CA 19-9 elevation is defined as two levels \> the institutional upper limit of normal (ULN) taken at least 2 weeks apart. These levels should be measured after adjuvant therapy has concluded or upon the decision that adjuvant therapy will not be offered. Patients will be randomized to one of two arms. Subjects enrolled due to node positive disease or R1 resection must be able to undergo randomization within 3 months of finishing adjuvant therapy or the decision that they are unable to take adjuvant therapy. Patients enrolling due to CA19-9 elevation can enroll any time after adjuvant therapy has completed. Arm A, the treatment arm, will be started on CC-486. Arm B, the control arm, will receive no additional therapy. In both arms, CA19-9 will be followed and CT scans (or MRI, if clinically indicated) will be done every three months. When patients have visible disease recurrence on imaging, CC-486 will be stopped and both groups will start first-line chemotherapy.