RaFIST: A Radiomics-Based Tool for Intratumoral Fibrosis Stratification in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Patients with suspected Lung cancer who underwent contrast-enhanced CT and pathological examinations at Center 1 between January 2011 and January 2020 and Center 2 between September 2017 and Januray 2020 were eligible for inclusion in this study.The Clinical data, preoperative clinical information, laboratory results, CT images and pathological sections were collected. The investigators also collected the disease-free survival and overall survival time. On the Deepwise multi-modal research platform, the images were semi-automatically segmented and PyRadiomics was used to extract the radiomic features. Fibrosis quantification was performed on picrosirius red (PSR)-stained tissue sections using color deconvolution and binarized collagen signal analysis in ImageJ software. The investigators developed RaFIST, a radiomics-based stratification tool, to noninvasively quantify intratumoral fibrosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) using contrast-enhanced CT imaging. And it was further tested on the held-out external test cohort. Discrimination was assessed by using the C-index and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).
Lung Cancer - Non Small Cell
OTHER: CT radiomic analysis|OTHER: Fibrosis assessment
DFS (Disease-free survival), DFS was defined as the duration from the date of primary surgery to the first occurrence of recurrence or death from any cause., Record from the date of surgery to the date of recurrence or death from any cause, whichever comes first, and assess up to a maximum of 5 years.
OS (overall survival）, Record from the date of surgery to the date of death from any cause，whichever comes first, and assess up to a maximum of 5 years.
Patients with suspected Lung cancer who underwent contrast-enhanced CT and pathological examinations at Center 1 between January 2011 and January 2020 and Center 2 between September 2017 and Januray 2020 were eligible for inclusion in this study.The Clinical data, preoperative clinical information, laboratory results, CT images and pathological sections were collected. The investigators also collected the disease-free survival and overall survival time. On the Deepwise multi-modal research platform, the images were semi-automatically segmented and PyRadiomics was used to extract the radiomic features. Fibrosis quantification was performed on picrosirius red (PSR)-stained tissue sections using color deconvolution and binarized collagen signal analysis in ImageJ software. The investigators developed RaFIST, a radiomics-based stratification tool, to noninvasively quantify intratumoral fibrosis in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) using contrast-enhanced CT imaging. And it was further tested on the held-out external test cohort. Discrimination was assessed by using the C-index and area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC).