Short Course Vaginal Cuff Brachytherapy in Treating Participants With Stage I-II Endometrial Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies short course vaginal cuff brachytherapy to see how well it works compared with standard of care vaginal cuff brachytherapy in treating participants with stage I-II endometrial cancer. Short course vaginal cuff brachytherapy, also known as internal radiation therapy, uses (over a shorter period) radioactive material placed directly into or near a tumor in the upper portion of the vagina to kill tumor cells.

After completion of cohort 1 (108 participants), the protocol was expended to add a second cohort of 80 additional participants, and re-opened study recruitment.
Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Stage I Uterine Corpus Cancer|Stage IA Uterine Corpus Cancer|Stage IB Uterine Corpus Cancer|Stage II Uterine Corpus Cancer|Uterine Corpus Carcinosarcoma|Uterine Corpus Sarcoma
RADIATION: Vaginal Cuff Brachytherapy|RADIATION: Short course vaginal cuff brachytherapy
Change in Quality of Life From Baseline to 1 Month, The European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-30 (QLQ-30) is used to evaluate quality of life in cancer patients. The questionnaire was given before and one month following treatment. The quality of life score ranges from 0-100, with higher scores indicating better quality of life. Baseline scores can be found in the Baseline Characteristics module. This outcome reports the average change from baseline to Month 1., At 1 month post treatment|Cohort 2: Participant-Reported Financial Toxicity, One month post-brachytherapy, participants will be given the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) - COmprehensive Score for financial Toxicity (COST) (FACIT-COST) questionnaire. The score range is 0-44, with higher scores indicating better financial well-being. Mean scores will be reported., One month after brachytherapy
Treatment-related Symptoms on HRQOL Using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Endometrial Cancer Module (EORTC EN24), Question 48, The European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Endometrial-24 (QLQ-EN24) was used to evaluate quality of life in cancer patients with endometrial cancers. The questionnaire was given before and one month following treatment. From this assessment, one question was selected as an indicator for this outcome, which measured whether participants felt less feminine as a result of their disease or treatment. The score ranges from 0-100, with higher scores indicating feeling less feminine. Baseline scores can be found in the Baseline Characteristics module. This outcome reports the average change from baseline to Month 1., one month post-treatment|USD Amount Charged for Procedures, The amount charged to participants or their insurance in US Dollars (USD) was collected to evaluate cost of experimental versus standard of care courses of treatment. Data was collected at approximately six months after treatment., Approximately 6 months after treatment|Cohort 2: Participant-Reported Diet, Participants will be asked to complete the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Diet History Questionnaire 3 (DHQIII) through the NCI website. Additional information about the questionnaire, methods, and measurements will be updated when results are reported for this outcome., One month after brachytherapy|Cohort 2: Participant-Reported Activity Levels, Participants will be asked to complete the NCI Activities Completed over Time in 24-hours (ACT24) questionnaire through the NCI website. Additional information about the questionnaire, methods, and measurements will be updated when results are reported for this outcome., One month after brachytherapy|Cohort 2: Financial Toxicity Correlated With Quality of Life, Mean scores from the FACIT-COST (from Outcome Measure 2: Participant-Reported Financial Toxicity) will be correlated with mean QoL scores (from Outcome Measure 1). Additional information about the methods and measurements will be updated when results are reported for this outcome., One month after brachytherapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the non-inferiority of participant health related quality of life (HRQOL) using the Global Health Score from the Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) in the 2 arms one month after treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare treatment-related symptoms on HRQOL using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Endometrial Cancer Module (EORTC EN24), question 48 between the two treatment arms.

II. Compare cost effectiveness between the two treatment arms.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Report vaginal, bowel, and bladder symptoms on HRQOL using the EORTC EN24 the two treatment arms.

II. Evaluate toxicities between the two treatment arms.

III. Compare local recurrence and document patterns of recurrence between the two treatment arms. There will be two analyses: A single interim evaluation of patterns of recurrence will be performed after a minimum of 75 participants have been accrued, and the second evaluation will be performed at the end of the study.

IV. Evaluate and compare doses to organs at risk (bladder, rectum, sigmoid colon, and urethra) and the prescribed target in the two arms.

V. Compare total distance traveled to the cancer center for study related visits.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

Arm I: Participants undergo short course vaginal cuff brachytherapy for 2 fractions with 1 week apart.

Arm II: Participants undergo standard of care vaginal cuff brachytherapy for 3-5 fractions over no more than 3 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 1, 6, and 12 months.

COHORT 2 (PILOT EXPANSION)

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The primary objective is to evaluate the frequency and severity of participant-reported financial toxicity in participants with early-stage endometrial cancer treated with vaginal cuff-brachytherapy (VCB) at one-month post-VCB.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Exploratory objectives will include evaluation of differences in participant-reported financial toxicity, between cohorts, to assess any impact of treatment duration on outcomes.

II. Exploratory objectives include evaluation of patient-reported diet and physical activity levels and quality of life in patients with early-stage endometrial cancer treated with vaginal cuff-brachytherapy (VCB) at one-month post-VCB.