Safety and Immune Response to a Mammaglobin-A DNA Vaccine In Breast Cancer Patients Undergoing Neoadjuvant Endocrine Therapy
The purpose of this research study is to find out about the safety of injecting the gene (DNA) for mammaglobin-A into people with breast cancer. The DNA used in this study was purified from bacteria and contains the gene for mammaglobin-A. Mammaglobin-A is a protein that is highly expressed by breast cancer cells. Injection of mammaglobin-A DNA may be a way to generate an immune response to breast cancer cells. There is evidence that an immune response may be a way to fight cancer. In addition to evaluating the safety of the mammaglobin-A injection, this study is also looking at the immune response that the participant's body has after each injection.
Breast Cancer|Breast Carcinoma|Malignant Neoplasm of Breast
BIOLOGICAL: Mammaglobin-A DNA Vaccine|PROCEDURE: Optional biopsy
Safety as measured by the number of participants who experience an adverse event, Assessment of plasmid DNA safety will include both clinical observation and laboratory evaluation. Safety will be closely monitored after injection with eight or more clinical and laboratory assessments in the first 24 weeks of the trial. The following parameters will be assessed following vaccination:

1. Local signs and symptoms
2. Systemic signs and symptoms
3. Laboratory evaluations, including blood counts and serum chemistries
4. Adverse and serious adverse events

Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0, Day 126 (+/- 7days)
Immune response, ELISPOT analyses and intracellular cytokine expression analyses using multi-parameter flow cytometry, and peptide MHC tetramer analyses will be performed. Peripheral blood will be obtained at two independent time points before vaccination (Pre-study, and Day 28 +/- 7 days), and at four independent time points following vaccination (Day 56 +/- 7 days, Day 84 +/- 7 days, Day 112 +/- 7 days, and Day 365 +/- 28 days)., Week 52|Progression-free survival (PFS), ◦Progressive disease - At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, appearance of one more new lesions PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., 5 years|Overall survival (OS), 5 years
Objective tumor response rate (ORR), -ORR=complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)

* Complete response: disappearance of all lesions and normalization of tumor marker level
* Partial response: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions and no new lesions, 5 years
The purpose of this research study is to find out about the safety of injecting the gene (DNA) for mammaglobin-A into people with breast cancer. The DNA used in this study was purified from bacteria and contains the gene for mammaglobin-A. Mammaglobin-A is a protein that is highly expressed by breast cancer cells. Injection of mammaglobin-A DNA may be a way to generate an immune response to breast cancer cells. There is evidence that an immune response may be a way to fight cancer. In addition to evaluating the safety of the mammaglobin-A injection, this study is also looking at the immune response that the participant's body has after each injection.