Mutant KRAS G12V-specific TCR Transduced T Cell Therapy for Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This clinical trial will evaluate the safety and activity of mutant KRAS G12V-specific TCR transduced T cell therapy for advanced pancreatic cancer patients who express the KRAS G12V mutation and HLA-A\*11:01 allele. The theoretical basis of this study is that mutant KRAS antigen-specific TCR transduced autologous Tcells will target and kill HLA-matched mutant KRAS cancer cells but not normal cells.
Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Neoplasms|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Mutant KRAS G12V-specific TCR transduced autologous T cells|DRUG: Anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody
Frequency and severity of treatment-related adverse events, Aggregate of all adverse events, as well as their frequency and severity, 18 months following cell infusion|Objective response rate, Percentage of patients who have a clinical response to treatment (objective tumor regression), From the date of cell infusion to disease progression (up to 18 months after cell infusion).
The percentage of TCR transduced T cells in peripheral blood, The percentage of TCR transduced T cells in peripheral blood will be detected with an established flow cytometric assay., 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 14, 28, 42 and 84 days after cell infusion, then every 3 months, and up to 18 months after cell infusion.|Overall survival, The time between cell infusion and the death of patients, From date of cell infusion until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 18 months after cell infusion.
Hotspot KRAS mutations exist in various cancers, especially pancreatic, lung and colorectal cancer. Mutations in KRAS are implicated in the development of pancreatic cancer and are associated with poor prognosis of the patients. KRAS is an attractive target for cancer treatment because it is a driver mutation and is likely expressed by all cells in a tumor. Recently,T cells targeting mutant KRAS have been identified in patients with epithelial cancers, and these T-cell receptors (TCR) have been characterized. For example, TCRs that target mutant KRAS G12D peptides presented by HLA-C\*08:02, and a TCR that targets a KRAS G12V peptide presented by HLA-A\*11:01 have been identified. Mutant KRAS-reactive T cells appear capable of inducing tumor regression as highlighted in a patient with metastatic colorectal cancer who experienced regression of metastatic tumors after infusion of HLA-C\*08:02-restricted KRAS-G12D reactive tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL). The investigators will test the safety and activity of adoptive transfer of autologous T cells genetically engineered to express a TCR that targets mutant KRAS G12V in the context of HLA-A\*11:01 in HLA-matched patients with advanced pancreatic cancer that express mutant KRAS G12V. The investigators will also measure the in vivo survival of engineered T cells.