Study of Induction Docetaxel, Cisplatin and 5-Fluorouracil
This is a Phase II study designed to test the efficacy of chemotherapy with docetaxel, cisplatinum (cisplatin) and 5-fluorouracil in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity to determine what effects these agents may have on cancer cells.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oral Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil
Number of Patients Who Had Response by RECIST Criteria (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors), Complete remission (complete disappearance of disease), partial remission \[more than 30% decrease in tumor measurement by RECIST (Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors)\]., every 3 months
Tumor Change by Baseline Acetylated Tubulin Expression Score, Percent change in TNM stage of tumors after three cycles of study treatment was assessed to see if baseline acetylated tubulin (AT) expression predicts treatment success. Decreasing tumor stage change (a negative number) indicates that the tumor is responding to treatment while an increase means that the severity of the tumor is not decreasing. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis of AT expression was performed in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded, pre-treatment tissues. The staining was scored based upon intensity according to the following criteria: 0=no staining, 1+=weak tumor staining, 2+=moderate tumor staining, 3+=moderate to high tumor staining, and 4+=high tumor staining.

Data presented are adopted from Saba, NF, et. al. Acetylated Tubulin (AT) as a Prognostic Marker in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck. Head and Neck Pathology (2014) 8:66-72., Baseline, After 3 cycles of study treatment
This is a Phase II study designed to test the efficacy of chemotherapy with docetaxel, cisplatinum, and 5-fluorouracil in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity to determine what effects these agents may have on cancer cells.

Approximately 60 patients will take part at multi-sites with potentially 20 patients participating at the Emory Winship Cancer Institute in Atlanta, Georgia.