PG2 Treatment Among Stage II/III Breast Cancer Patients Receiving Adjuvant Chemotherapy
Adjuvant chemotherapy usually is recommended after surgery for breast cancer patients who are at significant risk for disseminated disease. Chemotherapy has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence. Anthracycline-based regimens, including doxorubin or epilubicin, are the breast cancer adjuvant chemotherapy standards of care. Fatigue has also been identified as the most problem for breast cancer patients under adjuvant chemotherapy. In the current study, it is aimed to show that PG2 (astragalus polysaccharides) treatment among stage II/III breast patients under adjuvant EC regimen in reduction of chemotherapy-induced toxicity and encouraging compliance with chemotherapy.
Cancer-related Fatigue|Neutropenia, Malignant
DRUG: Astragalus polysaccharides 500 mg|DRUG: Placebo|PROCEDURE: EC Chemotherapy
Change in chemotherapy-related fatigue by brief fatigue Inventory, through 4 chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|Incidence of Grade 3/4 neutropenia, through 4 chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days)
Incidence of other Grade 3/4 Hematologic Toxicities, through study completion, an average 6-8 chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|Chemotherapy Dose Reductions, through study completion, an average 6-8 chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|Days of chemotherapy delay, through study completion, an average 6-8 chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|Cumulative Doses of G-CSF consumption, through study completion, an average 6-8 chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|Health-related Quality of Life by EORTC QLQ-C30 & Br23, through study completion, an average 6-8 chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|ECOG, through study completion, an average 6-8 chemotherapy cycles (each cycle is 21 days)
Adjuvant chemotherapy usually is recommended after surgery for breast cancer patients who are at significant risk for disseminated disease. Chemotherapy has been demonstrated to reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence. Anthracycline-based regimens, including doxorubin or epilubicin, are the breast cancer adjuvant chemotherapy standards of care. Fatigue has also been identified as the most problem for breast cancer patients under adjuvant chemotherapy. In the current study, it is aimed to show that PG2 (astragalus polysaccharides) treatment among stage II/III breast patients under adjuvant EC regimen in reduction of chemotherapy-induced toxicity and encouraging compliance with chemotherapy.