Bipolar Androgen Therapy to Restore Sensitivity to Androgen Deprivation Therapy for Patients With Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase I trial tests the change in androgen receptor sensitivity, side effects and effectiveness of bipolar androgen therapy, using testosterone, in patients with castration resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places is the body (metastatic). Bipolar androgen therapy is the regulation of testosterone between castration levels (lower than what would be normally present) and supraphysiological levels (amounts greater than normally found in the body). This may suppress cancer cell growth, which reduces prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels and may delay cancer progression.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Leuprolide Acetate|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Survey Administration|DRUG: Testosterone Cypionate
Androgen receptor (AR) activity, Assessed with spatial transcriptomic profiling using the well-validated Nelson 10 genes signature AR score. Will be summarized by timepoint using the mean and standard deviation, and graphically using dot-plots. The mean pre/post-intervention levels will be compared using a one-sided paired t-test (expected increase); with the effect summarized using the mean difference and fold change., Up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression
Incidence of adverse events, Using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 30 days after end of treatment or progression|Incidence of serious adverse events, Using the NCI CTCAE version 5.0., Up to 30 days after end of treatment or progression|Prostate specific antigen (PSA) 50, Defined as the proportion of patients with a \>=50% reduction in PSA from the maximal PSA level achieved during the treatment. Will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies., Up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression|Measurable disease response, Will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies., Up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression|Progression free survival, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, where the medians will be estimated with 95% confidence intervals (CIs)., From day 1 of treatment to the date when the first site of disease is found to progress, assessed up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression|Overall survival, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, where the medians will be estimated with 95% CIs., From the time of initiation of treatment until death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression|Assess Quality of life, Using the FACIT-F.he FACIT-F is a well-validated QOL instrument widely used for the assessment of cancer-related fatigue in clinical trials. It consists of 27 general QOL questions divided into 4 domains (physical, social, emotional, and functional), plus a 13-item fatigue sub-score. The patient rates the intensity of fatigue and its related symptoms on a scale of 0-4. The total score ranges between 0 and 52, with higher scores denoting less fatigue . Comparisons will be made between pre- and post-treatment using a paired t-test., Up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression|Assess Quality of Life, A self-reported 36 item survey (SF-36) of patient health where higher scores indicated better health related quality of life, Up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression|Assess Fatigue, Using the FACIT-F (FACIT Fatigue Scale) the FACIT-F is a well-validated QOL instrument widely used for the assessment of cancer-related fatigue in clinical trials. It consists of 27 general QOL questions divided into 4 domains (physical, social, emotional, and functional), plus a 13-item fatigue sub-score. The patient rates the intensity of fatigue and its related symptoms on a scale of 0-4. The total score ranges between 0 and 52, with higher scores denoting less fatigue, Up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression|Assess change in Fatigue, Assess changes in Fatigue using the SF-36 (Short Form Health Survey) A self reported 36 item survey where lower scores indicate greater fatigue., Up to 2 years after end of treatment/progression
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the influence of bipolar androgen therapy (BAT) on androgen receptor (AR) activity in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

* To determine the clinical efficacy and safety of BAT in patients with mCRPC.
* To determine the change in fatigue and quality of life in patients receiving BAT.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive testosterone intramuscularly (IM) on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also continue to receive standard of care leuprolide acetate subcutaneously (SC) per their standard schedule. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) scan, bone scan and may undergo magnetic resonance imaging and tumor biopsy throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients follow up at 30 days and every 3 months for up to 2 years.