The Role of 5-Aminolevulinic Acid Fluorescence-Guided Surgery in Head and Neck Cancers: a Pilot Trial
This study allows head and neck cancer surgeons to specifically visualize cancerous cells apart from normal healthy tissue. 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) is a safe and effective FDA-approved agent successfully used by neurosurgeons for FGS of different brain tumors is given to the patients preoperatively. Using specific wavelengths of light as well as specialized magnified lenses the surgeons use this technique to assist in tumor resection.
Neoplasm|Skull Base Neoplasm
DRUG: 5-Aminolevulinic acid Hydrochloride
PPIX tissue fluorescence, The feasibility of using oral Gleolan® as an adjunct diagnostic imaging tool for malignant tumor tissue fluorescence will be primarily assessed by computing sensitivity of intraoperative Gleolan® induced PPIX tissue fluorescence.

PPIX tissue fluorescence will be defined categorically as "no" (score 0), "low" (score 1), "medium" (score 2), and "high" (score 3) by operative surgeon, and images will be recorded. For purposes of computing measures of diagnostic performance a score of 0 will be considered a negative test result and a score of 1, 2 or 3 will be considered a positive test result., Through completion of surgery, up to 24 hours
Treatment for many head and neck cancer involves surgical resection, or removal, of the tumor. A potential outcome of surgery is subtotal resection, in which some cancerous material fails to be removed resulting in tumor recurrence and lower overall survival. Achieving total resection without interfering with normal tissue is a challenge due the critical anatomical structures of the head and neck. Fluorescent-guided surgery (FGS) is a new method of intraoperative imaging that can be used to clearly visualize cancerous tissue aprt from normal tissue during surgery in real-time. Before surgery, an agent that preferentially enters tumor cells is given to the patient. Tumor cells then glow brightly when exposed to specific wavelengths of light during surgery, allowing the surgeon to easily distinguish between healthy and cancerous tissue. 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) is a safe and effective FDA approved agent successfully used by neurosurgeons for FGS of different brain tumors which has not been assessed for use in head and neck cancers. The aim of the study is to determine if 5-ALA can be effectively used in FGS for different types of head and neck cancers, and if it will improve survival, tumor regrowth, and other outcomes for patients. 23 patients will be enrolled from the Mount Sinai Hospital, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary and Mount Sinai Union Square Faculty Practices over a 1 year period and will be completed by December 2022.