Anti-PD-1 in Combination With Chemotherapy as First-Line Treatment to Lung Cancer
This is a Phase II, open-label, 4-cohort study of the monoclonal antibody BGB-A317 in combination with standard platinum-based chemotherapy in participants with advanced NSCLC or SCLC. The 4 cohorts will be enrolled concurrently including non-squamous NSCLC Cohort, squamous NSCLC Cohort A, squamous NSCLC Cohort B and SCLC Cohort. Participants with a mixed adenocarcinoma and squamous cell NSCLC will be allocated to one of the NSCLC cohorts based on the predominant histopathological profile. (e.g., participants with adenocarcinoma component accounting for \> 50% will be allocated to non-squamous NSCLC cohort.). Participants with squamous NSCLC will be sequentially enrolled into either of the 2 squamous NSCLC cohorts by the trial stage i.e. the sequence of the enrollment for the squamous NSCLC cohorts will be as Cohort A safety run-in Stage, followed by Cohort B safety run-in Stage, Cohort A dose-expansion stage and Cohort B dose-expansion Stage.
Locally Advanced Lung Cancer; Metastatic Lung Cancer
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
The objective response rate (ORR) as assessed by the Investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1, Up to 4 years
The incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) according to NCI-CTCAE Version 4.03, Up to 4 years|Duration of Response (DoR) - defined as the time from the first determination of a confirmed objective response according to RECIST v1.1 until the first documentation of progression or death, whichever comes first, Up to 4 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) - defined as the time from the date of first dose of study treatment to the date of first documentation of disease progression using RECIST v1.1 or death, whichever occurs first, Up to 4 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR) - defined as the proportion of participants who achieve CR, PR and SD using RECIST v1.1, Up to 4 years|Pharmacokinetic evaluations of BGB-A317 in combination with chemotherapy: including but not limited to Ctrough, Up to 4 years|Anti-BGB-A317 antibody: immunogenic responses to BGB-A317 will be assessed to determine occurrence of anti-drug antibody., Up to 4 years|The abnormality of laboratory tests according to NCI CTCAE Version 4.03, Up to 4 years
This is a Phase II, open-label, 4-cohort study of the monoclonal antibody BGB-A317 in combination with standard platinum-based chemotherapy in participants with advanced NSCLC or SCLC. The 4 cohorts will be enrolled concurrently including non-squamous NSCLC Cohort, squamous NSCLC Cohort A, squamous NSCLC Cohort B and SCLC Cohort. Participants with a mixed adenocarcinoma and squamous cell NSCLC will be allocated to one of the NSCLC cohorts based on the predominant histopathological profile. (e.g., participants with adenocarcinoma component accounting for \> 50% will be allocated to non-squamous NSCLC cohort.). Participants with squamous NSCLC will be sequentially enrolled into either of the 2 squamous NSCLC cohorts by the trial stage i.e. the sequence of the enrollment for the squamous NSCLC cohorts will be as Cohort A safety run-in Stage, followed by Cohort B safety run-in Stage, Cohort A dose-expansion stage and Cohort B dose-expansion Stage.