Epirubicin, Oxaliplatin and Fluorouracil (EOF) in Cancer of the Esophagus, Gastroesophageal Junction, or Stomach
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as epirubicin, oxaliplatin, fluorouracil, and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving chemotherapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. Giving chemotherapy and radiation therapy after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy, surgery, and radiation therapy works in treating patients with locoregionally advanced cancer of the esophagus, gastroesophageal junction, or stomach.
Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: epirubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: oxaliplatin|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy|PROCEDURE: neoadjuvant therapy
Feasibility of Induction Chemoradiotherapy as Measured by Resectability Rate, Feasibility of induction chemoradiotherapy as measured by resectability in greater than 75% of participants. The number of participants that were resectable., at 12 weeks from on study
Clinical Response Rate, Percent of participants with a clinical response:

Complete clinical response is defined as the complete disappearance of all clinical evidence of tumor.

Partial clinical response is defined as any improvement in the clinically determined T or N stage (without reciprocal deterioration in N or T) or a resolution of M1a disease, when compared to the pretreatment clinical stage. A partial response will not be defined based only on shrinkage of a measurable lesion unless there is improvement in the TNM stage.

Stable clinical disease is defined as no change in the clinical TNM stage when compared to the pretreatment clinical stage.

Progressive clinical disease is defined as any increase in the T or N stage irrespective of any reciprocal improvement in N or T, or as the development of new areas of malignancy or metastases., at 12 weeks from on study|Pathological Response Rate, Percent of participants with a clinical response:

Complete pathologic response is defined as the complete disappearance of all viable tumor in the surgical specimen.

Partial pathologic response is defined as any improvement in the pathologically determined T or N stage (without reciprocal deterioration in N or T) or a resolution of M1a disease, when compared to the pretreatment esophageal ultrasound-determined clinical stage. A partial response will not be defined based only on shrinkage of a measurable lesion unless there is improvement in the TNM stage.

Stable pathologic disease is defined as no change in the pathologically determined TNM stage when compared to the pretreatment esophageal ultrasound.

Progressive pathologic disease is defined as any increase in the T or N stage irrespective of any reciprocal improvement in N or T, or as the development of new areas of malignancy or metastases., after completion of study at 35 weeks|Overall Survival, Percent of participants with a 3-year survival. A survival rate greater than 50% would suggest efficacy and justify further study., at 3 years from on study|Locoregional Control and Distant Metastatic Control, A distant metastatic control rate of greater than 55 % would suggest efficacy for this treatment protocol. A locoregional control rate of less than 75% would suggest inefficacy. Locoregional control (LRC) defined by recurrence at the primary site or in regional lymph nodes and distant metastatic control (DMC), defined by recurrence in a distant site., at 3 years from on study|Postoperative Adjuvant Chemoradiotherapy Feasibility, Ability to complete postoperative chemoradiotherapy. A threshold level of 65% was set and if less than this percentage completed the phase, it would be deemed unacceptable. The anticipation was that 53-patients would be evaluable for this end point., Between 6 to 10 weeks postoperatively
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To assess the feasibility and tolerability of induction chemotherapy comprising epirubicin hydrochloride, oxaliplatin, and fluorouracil (EOF), followed by surgical resection and postoperative concurrent chemoradiotherapy comprising fluorouracil and cisplatin in patients with locoregionally advanced adenocarcinoma of the esophagus, gastroesophageal junction, or gastric cardia.

Secondary

* To determine the rate of complete and partial response to three courses of EOF induction chemotherapy.
* To compare the recurrence-free and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen vs historical controls at this institution.
* To compare patterns of failure in patients treated with this regimen vs historical controls at this institution.

OUTLINE:

* Induction chemotherapy: Patients receive epirubicin hydrochloride IV over 3-15 minutes and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Surgery: Four weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy, patients with locoregionally confined disease (T0-4, N0-1, M0-1a) undergo transthoracic esophagogastrectomy or total gastrectomy with Roux-en-Y esophagojejunostomy, depending on the location and extent of the tumor at the time of surgery.
* Postoperative chemoradiotherapy: Beginning 6-10 weeks after surgery, patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for approximately 6 weeks. Patients also receive fluorouracil IV continuously and cisplatin IV continuously over 96 hours in weeks 1 and 4 of radiotherapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 8-12 weeks for 3 years.