Pembrolizumab and Pralatrexate in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-Cell Lymphomas
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of pralatrexate when given together with pembrolizumab and how well they work in treating patients with peripheral T-cell lymphomas that has come back after a period of improvement or has not responded to treatment. Pralatrexate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving pembrolizumab and pralatrexate may work better in treating patients with peripheral T-cell lymphomas.
Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Nodal Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma With TFH Phenotype|Recurrent Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Enteropathy-Associated T-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mature T- Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Monomorphic Epitheliotropic Intestinal T-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides|Recurrent Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Refractory Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Enteropathy-Associated T-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mature T-Cell and NK-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Mycosis Fungoides|Refractory Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Subcutaneous Panniculitis-Like T-Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Pralatrexate
Number of Participants Who Had Dose Limiting Toxicities, Dose limiting toxicities (DLT) were defined as one of the AEs in Protocol Section 5.5 that at least possibly related to study treatment. The DLT observation period was 2 cycles of therapy, from the start of Cycle 1 through the start of Cycle 3. Toxicities were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, Version 5.0)., From the start of Cycle 1 through the start of Cycle 3 (approximately 42 days)|Number of Participants Who Had Overall Response, Number of participants who had a documented complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at any time during study treatment. Disease response/progression by PET-CT or CT was evaluated using 2014 Lugano Classification., Up to 43 months after the initial study treatment.
Number of Participants Who Had Complete Response (CR), Number of participants who had a documented complete response at any time during study treatment. Disease response/progression by PET-CT or CT was evaluated using 2014 Lugano Classification., Up to 43 months after the initial study treatment.|Number of Participants With Grade 3 4 5 Adverse Events, Number of Participants who had grade 3 4 5 toxicities at lease possibly related to study treatment. Toxicities were assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Grade refers to the severity of the AE and ranges from 1 to 5 (Grade 1=Mild, Grade 2=Moderate, Grade 3=Severe, Grade 4=Life-threatening, Grade 5=Death)., From the start time of the initial treatment assessed through 8 treatment cycles (21 days per cycle) up to 90 days from last dose (approximately 9 months).
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of a regimen combining pembrolizumab and pralatrexate in patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL).

II. Establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the combined pralatrexate and pembrolizumab regimen.

III. Estimate the overall response rate (ORR) according to the Lugano Classification in patients treated with pembrolizumab plus pralatrexate at the RP2D.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the complete response (CR) rate according to the Lugano Classification duration of response (DOR), overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) in patients treated with pembrolizumab plus pralatrexate.

II. Estimate the ORR and CR rate according to the International Harmonization Project response criteria.

III. Evaluate responses and disease progression according to the Lymphoma Response to Immunomodulatory therapy Criteria (LYRIC).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Explore immunologic and genomic biomarkers of response to pembrolizumab plus pralatrexate therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of pralatrexate followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive pralatrexate intravenously (IV) over 3-5 minutes on days 1 and 8 and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days, every 12 weeks for 1 year, and then every 18 weeks thereafter.