Lung Cancer Patients and Parent-child Interaction Experience and Process
Type of study: The goal of this observational study is to explore the relationship between patients with advanced lung cancer and their parent-child interactions during the treatment process, and to understand the impact of the degree of self-differentiation of parents with advanced lung cancer on the physical and mental health of their children. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. To explore the post-illness adjustment process of patients with advanced lung cancer and the changes in the parent-child relationship among adolescents.
2. To explore the changes in demographic factors-self-belief, mental health, and self-efficacy among patients with advanced lung cancer-and the parent-child relationship among adolescents.
3. Explore the family resilience of patients with advanced lung cancer - family peer relationships, and the interaction between parent-child relationships among adolescents.
Lung Cancer Patients|Parent-child Interaction
OTHER: structured questionnaire
Parent-child interaction, The interaction between patients with advanced lung cancer and their parents and children during the treatment process, one years|Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale, The CES-D scale is designed to measure an individual's depression level, covering multiple aspects such as depressed mood, guilt, helplessness, decreased appetite, sleep disturbance and psychomotor retardation, with a total of 20 items. The subjects evaluated the frequency of each symptom in the past week using a four-point scale (1 point: never or rarely; 4 points: often). Studies have shown that CES-D has good internal consistency (α=0.85) (Conerly et al., 2002; Given et al., 2004) and reliability (Cronbach's alpha \> 0.85) in cancer patients (Hann et al., 2004). al., 1999) , and therefore can effectively assess the level of depression in cancer patients. In short, the CES-D is a validated tool for assessing depression in cancer patients., one years
This study explores the relationship between late-stage lung cancer patients and their parent-child interactions during the treatment process, and understands the impact of the degree of self-differentiation of parents with late-stage lung cancer on their children's physical and mental health.