International Registry of Patients Treated With Pressurized IntraPeritoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC)
Multicentric, international, web-based prospective documentation of the indications and results of Pressurized Aerosol Chemotherapy (so-called PIPAC or PITAC) for treating malignant pleural and peritoneal diseases. Indication is decided by the treating physician. There are no predefined inclusion or exclusion criteria.
Peritoneum Cancer|Peritoneum Neoplasm|Pleural Cancer|Pleural Effusion|Pleural Mesothelioma|Ovarian Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Appendix Cancer|Pseudomyxoma Peritonei|Colorectal Cancer|Pancreas Cancer|Gallbladder Cancer|Ascites|CUP|Chemotherapeutic Toxicity
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: PIPAC
Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier, 1 to 5 years
Clinical Benefit Rate, according to RECIST criteria (CR + PR + SD), 3 months|Histological tumor regression according to the Peritoneal Regression Grading Score (PRGS), according to the Peritoneal Regression Grading Score (PRGS), 6 weeks|Safety according to CTCAE 4.0, according to CTCAE 4.0, 6 weeks|Quality of life according to QLQ-30 of EORTC, according to QLQ-30 of EORTC, 6-18 weeks
All data entered into the registry documenting the patient cohort characteristics (disease, demography, therapy) are analyzed using descriptive statistics. Survival data are analyzed with Kaplan-Meier statistics. Multivariate Cox Proportional Hazard Models are used to identify potential prognostic and predictive factors. In particular, a risk- adjusted comparison of the outcome criteria with a propensity score is planned.

The data are stored in a SQL-based online database. Patient data are pseudoanonymized. The registry has received approval of the data protection officer of the State of Northrhine-Westphalia.

The study steering committee is blinded towards the identity of the participating institutions. Each participating institution receives an annual report with own data vs. benchmark. Scientific analysis can be proposed by the steering committee, by a participating institution or by other scientists, subjected to the approval of the independent scientific advisory board.

An export function has been built in to allow data exchange with the HIPEC Registry of the German Society for General and GI surgery (http://www.dgav.de/studoq/studoqhipec.html).