Accelerated Partial Breast Radiation Therapy Using High-Dose Rate Brachytherapy in Treating Patients With Early Stage Breast Cancer After Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) using high-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy works in treating patients with breast cancer that has not spread beyond the breast or the axillary lymph nodes (early-stage) after surgery. Radiation therapy uses a type of energy to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Brachytherapy is a type of internal radiation therapy that provides radiation inside the breast to any remaining tumor cells next to the space where the tumor was removed, and is given over a shorter amount of time than standard radiation therapy. Giving accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) using high-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy may reduce the overall time that radiation is delivered to the tumor cells.
Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Estrogen Receptor Positive|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Progesterone Receptor Positive|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation|RADIATION: High-Dose Rate Brachytherapy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Number of Participants With Adverse Events Greater Than Grade 2 Serious Toxicity Rate, Defined as Toxicity Greater Than Grade 2 Using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 Criteria, Measured by the data collected for toxicity and cosmesis as dichotomous variables. This will be assessed by physical examination at each follow-up visit. To be scored as a serious toxicity counting toward the primary endpoint, the toxicity must have a "probable" or "definite" attribution to the study treatment., 2 years
Local Control Rate, Assessed by Physical Examination, The association of variables with local regional failure times will be investigated by fitting a parametric model and examining the significance of the parameter estimates. Nonparametric estimates of the survival or recurrence-free distributions or recurrence (failure) distribution will be obtained by life table methods., 3 years|Number of Participants With Good/Excellent Cosmetic Results, Using the Harvard Cosmesis Scale, Descriptive statistics reported., 2 years|Local Control Rate, Assessed by Mammography, Assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method. The association of variables with local regional failure times will be investigated by fitting a parametric model and examining the significance of the parameter estimates. Nonparametric estimates of the survival or recurrence-free distributions or recurrence (failure) distribution will be obtained by life table methods. Tests will be declared statistically significant if the calculated P-value was =\< 0.05. All tests appear as 2-sided P-values., 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity rate with shorter courses of accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) delivered with a breast brachytherapy applicator.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the 3-year actuarial local control rate with abbreviated accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI).

II. To assess the rate of excellent or good cosmesis at 2-years after shorter courses of APBI and to identify co-variants associated with and predictive of poor cosmetic outcome in women treated with an overnight treatment course of APBI.

OUTLINE:

Within 1-5 days after balloon placement, patients undergo accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) using high-dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy over 15-60 minutes for 2-3 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2-8 weeks and then at least annually for 2 years.