Adjuvant ChemoRadiotherapy Prior to Surgery in Stage IVa Oral Cancers
Oral cancer is the single largest cancer in males in India. 90-95% cases of oral cancer are Squamous cell carcinomas and many of them present at late stages (T3 and above). Treatment of OSCC includes single modality surgery, radiotherapy, or combinations of these modalities with or without systemic therapy. For unresectable cases, radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy is the treatment modality. Efficacy of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy for resectable stage IV tumors (late stage) needs to be evaluated to assess its benefit before surgery.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Oral Cavity
DRUG: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy|RADIATION: Neoadjuvant radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Resection and reconstruction
Objective response rate, This will be deduced from pathological response in terms of complete and partial response. Complete response is defined as no invasive and no in situ residuals present in the surgical specimen. Partial response defined as at least a 30% reduction in the size of the lesion in the surgical specimen., Upto 1 year|Disease free survival, Disease-free survival will be calculated as the time interval (months) between primary treatment and the first recurrence (whether local, regional or distant)., 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall Survival will be calculated as the time interval (months) between primary treatment and death., 2 years
Quality of life assessment, Patient reported quality of life will be assessed at a regular interval of 1 year using the University of Washington Quality of Life Questionnaire (UW-QOL v.4). The minimum score is 0 which is indicative of worse outcome while 100 is the maximum score and indicative of better outcome. Various parameters including chewing, pain, swallowing, saliva, appearance etc. are included in the questionnaire. Average score for each parameter with standard deviation will be reported., 2 years
This study will assess the benefit of preoperative adjuvant chemoradiotherapy in patients with an Stage IVa oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). The study population will consist of patients who have not been treated previously. Patients satisfying the inclusion-exclusion criteria will be included in the study after obtaining a valid, written and informed consent. After reviewing the histopathological report, the patients will be treated as per the study protocol. The patients will be under regular follow-up with 3 monthly intervals for a period of one year and 6 monthly period in the following years. At each follow-up, patients will be evaluated clinically for evidence of locoregional tumor recurrence. The locoregional recurrence-free survival will be calculated based on the difference between the date of inclusion and the date of biopsy-proven recurrence. We will also record the overall survival, parameters like trismus, osteonecrosis and xerostomia. Quality of life will be assessed at a regular interval of 1 year using the University of Washington Quality of Life Questionnaire (UW-QOL v.4)

Study protocol:

1. Preoperative radiotherapy over 5 weeks- Dose 180-200cgys per day/ total 4500 cgys
2. Three weekly concurrent chemotherapy with cisplatin 100 mg /m2
3. Initial surgery in leg for Prefabrication of fibula - 2 weeks after starting of radiotherapy treatment. Delay is required for planning of implant position in the fibula.
4. Definitive surgical procedure with reconstruction by prefabricated flap, 6 weeks post radiotherapy.