Isatuximab, Bendamustine, and Prednisone in Refractory Multiple Myeloma
Isatuximab targets and kills CD38-positive myeloma cells in manner similar to rituximab's mechanism of action on CD20-positive lymphoma cells. Based on the synergy between rituximab and bendamustine, as well as the established clinical efficacy of bendamustine and isatuximab as single agents for multiple myeloma, the logical next step is to combine isatuximab with bendamustine and prednisone. Due to lack of effective therapies in refractory multiple myeloma, herein the investigators propose studying this novel combination in this population, in order to address a significant unmet need. The aim of the investigators is to first determine the maximal tolerated dose of the combination in participants with relapsed/refractory myeloma and then to establish the efficacy of this novel combination.
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Isatuximab|DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Prednisone
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of regimen (Phase I only), The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the dose level immediately below the dose level at which 2 participants of a cohort (of 2 to 6 participants) experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first cycle of treatment. Dose escalation will proceed until the MTD has been reached or until the maximum dose of each drug is tested (Dose Level 3). If no more than 1 DLT is observed at dose levels 1, 2 and 3, level 3 will be declared the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and the MTD will remain undefined., Completion of first cycle of treatment for all participants enrolled in Phase I portion (estimated to be 9 months)|Overall response rate (ORR) (Phase II only), -ORR defined as the proportion of patients meeting the criteria for partial response, very good partial response, complete response, or stringent complete response per IMWG 2016 response criteria., 6 months
Number of adverse events experienced by participants (Phase I and Phase II), Participants will be evaluated for toxicity according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) version 5.0., From start of treatment through 30 days after completion of treatment or initiation of new anti-myeloma therapy, whichever occurs first (estimated to be 7 months)|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II only), Progression-free survival (PFS) will be defined as time from Cycle 1 Day 1 to disease progression or relapse. Any patient who expires, withdraws, or is lost to follow-up prior to disease progression or relapse will be censored at last follow-up. Patients who are removed from study therapy prior to progression or relapse will be censored at the time of initiation of subsequent anti-myeloma treatment., Up to 5 years after removal from study (estimated to be 5 years and 6 months)|Overall survival (OS) (Phase II only), Overall survival (OS) will be defined as time from Cycle 1 Day 1 to death due to any causes. Patients who are alive at the time of data analyses will be censored on the last known alive date. Patients who are removed from study therapy prior death will be censored at the time of initiation of subsequent anti-myeloma treatment., Up to 5 years after removal from study (estimated to be 5 years and 6 months)
Isatuximab targets and kills CD38-positive myeloma cells in manner similar to rituximab's mechanism of action on CD20-positive lymphoma cells. Based on the synergy between rituximab and bendamustine, as well as the established clinical efficacy of bendamustine and isatuximab as single agents for multiple myeloma, the logical next step is to combine isatuximab with bendamustine and prednisone. Due to lack of effective therapies in refractory multiple myeloma, herein the investigators propose studying this novel combination in this population, in order to address a significant unmet need. The aim of the investigators is to first determine the maximal tolerated dose of the combination in participants with relapsed/refractory myeloma and then to establish the efficacy of this novel combination.