SCRT in TNT With or Without Chlorophyllin
The goal of this clinical trial is to see, if addition of chlorophyllin to neoadjuvant Chemo-radiotherapy can reduce the gastro-intestinal/genitourinary/hematological toxicity rates and improve the quality of life in patient's diagnosed with locally advanced rectal cancer.

This is a randomized placebo control trial, wherein participants randomized to Chlorophyllin arm will receive the drug of interest along with the standard treatment. Participants randomized to other arm will receive placebo along with the standard treatment.

Researchers will compare the difference between the outcomes from both the arms and will also observe the non-operative management success rates.
Rectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Chlorophyllin, Sodium Copper Complex|DRUG: Placebo
Acute Toxicity, Incidence of grade 2 or higher Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) acute gastro-intestinal (GI)/genitourinary (GI)/haematological toxicity (HT) in advanced rectal cancer.

Minimum value: Grade 1 Maximum value: Grade 5 Grade 1 late toxicity means a good outcome. Grade 2 or higher late toxicity means a worse outcome., 3 months post-last cytotoxic therapy.
Overall successful complete response rates, To estimate the 3-year overall complete response rates (clinical or pathological) and complete clinical response (cCR) at 24-36 weeks post TNT in whole cohort and if any difference between chlorophyllin and control arms., 3 years|Organ preservation rates, To estimate the 3-year organ preservation rates, TME free survival and if any difference between chlorophyllin \& control arms.(by estimating patients who did not need surgery for rectal cancer (Total mesorectal excision; TME) at two years and if any difference between chlorophyllin and control arms.), 3 years|Disease free survival, To estimate the 3-year disease free survival, Distant metastasis free survival, loco-regional failure free survival, and overall survival rates in the whole cohort, and if any difference between two arms and between patients with successful non-operative management versus others., 3 years|Treatment related early and late toxicities, To compare treatment-related early and late toxicities (grade 2 Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0) for two years between the groups as (3).

Minimum value: Grade 1 Maximum value: Grade 5 Grade 1 late toxicity means a good outcome. Grade 2 or higher late toxicity means a worse outcome., 2 years|Estimation of surgical complications, To estimate surgical complications based on Clavien-Dindo classification. Minimum value: Grade 1 Maximum value: Grade 5 Grade 1 surgical complications means a good outcome. Grade 2 or higher surgical complications means a worse outcome., 30 days post surgery|Health related quality of life, To estimate and compare Health Related Quality of Life (QOL) between various groups as (3). (using quality of life questionnaires (QLQ) of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)) These questionnaires will be filled by patient at six month interval of follow up., 2 years|Cost benefit with reduction in toxicity, The direct cost of per patient for various supportive medications, hospital admissions will be estimated in both arms and compared to see if any financial benefit of reduction in toxicity.

Record of medicines and details of hospitalization will be maintained., 2 years|Tumor Volume reduction kinetics, To study the correlation of tumour volume with used radiotherapy doses leading to a successful non-operative management versus not in the study group of patients., 2 years|To evaluate the timeline of Occurence, To evaluate the timeline of Occurence of grade 2/3 GI toxicities (namely rectal bleeding, rectal ulcer, rectal pain, tenesmus) during SCRT based TNT., 3 years
The current standard treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer includes neoadjuvant (treatment given before Surgery) radiotherapy \& chemotherapy followed by surgery if needed or wait and watch in patients whom tumour has completely regressed. It has been observed that even after receiving this intensive treatment patients, almost 70% of patients develop acute toxicity (during or within 3 months) of grade 2 or higher (needing medication for toxicity). This affects their treatment tolerance, completion and quality of life.

In this study Researchers are going to see if addition of drug Chlorophyllin (derived from green plant leaves) along with standard treatment would help in reducing the acute toxicity. Chlorophyllin is present in all green leaves of plants giving them green color. The drug is derived from green plant leaves. As it is a plant-based product it is safe for humans and has no known side effects of its own. This is a randomized study which has two arms; Arm 1 is test arm where participants will receive drug of interest (Chlorophyllin) and in other arm participants will receive Placebo. Upon successful completion of study, outcomes from both the study arm will be compared and participants will be followed by standard protocol for 3 years.