Cisplatin With or Without Veliparib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Triple-Negative and/or BRCA Mutation-Associated Breast Cancer With or Without Brain Metastases
This randomized phase II trial studies how well cisplatin works with or without veliparib in treating patients with triple-negative breast cancer and/or BRCA mutation-associated breast cancer that has come back (recurrent) or has or has not spread to the brain (brain metastases). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. PARPs are proteins that help repair DNA mutations. PARP inhibitors, such as veliparib, can keep PARP from working, so tumor cells can't repair themselves, and they may stop growing. It is not yet known if cisplatin is more effective with or without veliparib in treating patients with triple-negative and/or BRCA mutation-associated breast cancer.
Metastatic BRCA Hereditary Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain|Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Cisplatin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo Administration|DRUG: Veliparib
Progression-free survival (PFS), Veliparib will be compared to no veliparib in the BRCA mutation-carriers, BRCA mutation-negative BRCAness-like group, and BRCA mutation-negative non-BRCA-like group. A stratified log-rank test will be used to compare PFS between the two arms in an intention to treat (ITT) analysis where stratification is by line of therapy. In the Progressive Brain Metastases Cohort, veliparib will be compared to no veliparib in patients with active brain metastases that are progressive after prior intracranial therapy. A stratified log-rank test will be used to compare PFS between the two arms in an ITT analysis where stratification is by Modified Breast-Graded Prognostic Assessment (GPA) and prior systemic therapies., Time from registration (randomization) to progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival (OS), Veliparib will be compared to no veliparib in the BRCA mutation-carriers, BRCA mutation-negative BRCAness-like group, and BRCA mutation-negative non-BRCA-like group. A stratified log-rank test will be used to compare OS between the two arms in an ITT analysis where stratification is line by line. In the Progressive Brain Metastases Cohort, veliparib will be compared to no veliparib in patients with active brain metastases that are progressive after prior intracranial therapy. A stratified log-rank test will be used to compare OS between the two arms in an ITT analysis where stratification is by Modified Breast-GPA and prior systemic therapies., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to a minimum of 5 years|Response rate (measurable disease only), Response rate will be analyzed for patients with measurable disease. Patients who achieve complete or partial response will be classified as having a response. The primary analyses will be conducted using these binary responses using Fisher's exact test and logistic regression., Up to 5 years|Clinical benefit rate, Clinical benefit will be assessed in all patients and will include those with complete or partial response and those with stable disease for 6 months. The primary analyses will be conducted using these binary responses using Fisher's exact test and logistic regression., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or without ABT-888 (veliparib) on progression-free survival (PFS) in each of the following groups:

Ia. Patients with germline BRCA (gBRCA) mutation-associated breast cancer. Ib. Patients with germline BRCA wild-type breast cancer who have evidence of BRCAness phenotype.

Ic. Patients with germline BRCA wild-type breast cancer who do not have evidence of BRCAness phenotype.

II. To compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or without ABT-888 on PFS in patients with triple negative and/or gBRCA mutation-associated breast cancer and brain metastases. (Brain Metastases Cohort)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. For patients with gBRCA mutation associated breast cancer (group "i" above) or triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) with (group "ii") or without (group "iii") BRCAness phenotype, to compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or without ABT-888 on overall survival (OS), response rate, and clinical benefit rate.

II. To compare the differential benefit of ABT-888 across the three groups using both PFS and OS as outcomes.

III. For patients in the brain metastases cohort, to compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or without ABT-888 on OS.

IV. For patients in the brain metastases cohort, to compare the efficacy of cisplatin with or without ABT-888 on intracranial and extracranial response rates (intracranial by Response Assessment Neuro-Oncology Criteria \[RANO\] and extracranial by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 \[RECIST 1.1\]).

V. To compare toxicities of ABT-888 to placebo in each of the four groups separately.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the impact of homologous recombination deficiency score (independent of other BRCAness markers) on response rate (RR) and PFS in patients treated with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy plus ABT-888.

II. To evaluate the overlap among various markers utilized to define the BRCAness phenotype.

III. To evaluate the combined impact of PAM50 basal subtype and BRCAness phenotype on RR and PFS in patients treated with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy plus ABT-888.

IV. To evaluate the impact of BRCA1 mRNA expression (independent other BRCAness markers) on response rate (RR) and PFS in patients treated with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy plus ABT-888.

V. Application of somatic BRCAness phenotype markers on metastatic tumor tissue to identify patients likely to benefit from platinum-based therapy and ABT-888.

VI. To determine the overlap of BRCA phenotype (germline BRCA, BRCA-like, non-BRCA-like) with tissue PD-L1 status and to determine if ABT-888 (veliparib) benefit in BRCA-like patients is maintained when adjusting for PD-L1 status.

VII. To evaluate circulating tumor cells - homologous recombination deficiency (CTC-HRD) status as a predictive biomarker of response to treatment with cisplatin plus ABT-888 (veliparib) versus cisplatin plus placebo.

VIII. To evaluate circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) HRR (homologous recombination repair) mutation status as a predictive marker of response to treatment with cisplatin plus ABT-888 (veliparib) versus cisplatin plus placebo.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 and placebo orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and veliparib PO BID on days 1-14. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 9 weeks for 54 weeks, every 18 weeks until progression, and then every 6 months for up to 5 years after registration.