Study of XL184 (Cabozantinib) in Adults With Advanced Malignancies
The purpose of this study is to determine the best and safest dose of XL184 administered orally. XL184 is a new chemical entity that inhibits VEGFR2, MET and RET, kinases implicated in tumor formation, growth and migration. To determine the highest safe dose, subjects will receive different amounts of the drug. The first group of subjects will receive the lowest dose of XL184. As long as no medically unacceptable side effects are noted, the dose will be increased for the next group. When the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached, at least 20 subjects with Medullary Thyroid Cancer (MTC) will be enrolled to evaluate the effect of XL184 in this population.
Lymphoma|Cancer|Thyroid Carcinoma
DRUG: XL184
Safety, tolerability, maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and dose-limiting toxicity of oral administration of XL184, Assessed during periodic visits|Evaluate plasma pharmacokinetics and estimate renal elimination of oral administration of XL184, Assessed during periodic visits
Long-term safety/tolerability of XL184 after oral administration for up to 1 year, Assessed during periodic visits|Evaluate preliminary tumor response after repeated XL184 administration, Assessed during periodic visits|In MTD expanded cohort: Progression-free survival and duration of response in subjects with advanced or recurrent medullary thyroid cancer, Assessed during periodic visits
The purpose of this study is to determine the best and safest dose of XL184 administered orally. XL184 is a new chemical entity that inhibits VEGFR2, MET and RET, kinases implicated in tumor formation, growth and migration. To determine the highest safe dose, subjects will receive different amounts of the drug. The first group of subjects will receive the lowest dose of XL184. As long as no medically unacceptable side effects are noted, the dose will be increased for the next group. When the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached, at least 20 subjects with Medullary Thyroid Cancer (MTC) will be enrolled to evaluate the effect of XL184 in this population.