PROSTVAC (PSA-TRICOM) in Preventing Disease Progression in Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer Undergoing Active Surveillance
This randomized phase II trial studies how well PROSTVAC (prostate-specific antigen \[PSA\]-TRICOM) works in preventing disease progression in patients with prostate cancer undergoing active surveillance. Vaccines made from a person's tumor cells may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells that express PSA.
Stage I Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo Administration|BIOLOGICAL: Rilimogene Galvacirepvec
Change in CD8+ Positive Cells in the Stroma Adjacent to Tumor and Within the Malignant Portion of the Prostate Biopsies, change (from pre to post-intervention) in CD8+ positive cells in the stroma adjacent to tumor and within the malignant portion of the prostate biopsies., Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose|Change in CD4+ Positive Cells in the Stroma Adjacent to Tumor and Within the Malignant Portion of the Prostate Biopsies, change (from pre to post-intervention) in CD4+ positive cells in the stroma adjacent to tumor and within the malignant portion of the prostate biopsies., Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose
Change in PD-L1 Positive Cells in the Stroma Adjacent to Tumor and Within the Malignant Portion of the Prostate Biopsies, Change (from pre to post-intervention) in PD-L1 positive cells in the stroma adjacent to tumor and within the malignant portion of the prostate biopsies, Baseline to 6 months post-intervention|Change in Prostate-specific Antigen (PSA), Change (from baseline to 6 months post-intervention) in prostate-specific antigen (PSA), Baseline to 6 months post-intervention|Change in CD8+ Positive Cells in the Benign Portion of the Prostate Biopsies, Change (from pre to post-intervention) in CD8+ positive cells in the benign portion of the prostate biopsies, Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose|Change in CD4+ Positive Cells in the Benign Portion of the Prostate Biopsies, Change (from pre to post-intervention) in CD4+ positive cells in the benign portion of the prostate biopsies, Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose|Change in PD-L1 Positive Cells in the Benign Portion of the Prostate Biopsies, Change (from pre to post-intervention) in PD-L1 positive cells in the benign portion of the prostate biopsies, Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose|Tumor Grade Progression, Assessed by the proportion of men with an increase in Gleason score to \>= 4+3 from baseline to post-intervention biopsy. The Gleason score is determined by adding the two most common grades. The Gleason score usually ranges from 6 to 10. Higher numbers indicate a faster growing cancer that is more likely to spread., Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose|Change in Tumor Extent, Assessed by change (from pre to post-intervention) in percent positive random cores, Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose|Proportion of Men With no Cancer in the Post-intervention Biopsy, Assessed by the proportion of patients with no cancer on the post-intervention biopsy, Up to 14 days after the last dose|Size of Dominant MRI Lesion, The size of dominant MRI lesion., Up to 14 days after the last dose|Change in Circulating 15-Mer PSA-specific T Cells, Change (from pre to post-intervention) in circulating 15-Mer PSA-specific T cells, Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose|Change in Soluble Antibodies to Tumor-associated Antigens, Change (from pre to post-intervention) in soluble antibodies to tumor-associated antigens, Baseline to up to 14 days after the last dose|Immunologic Effects on the Target Organ Using Multiplex Immunofluorescence, Up to 14 days after the last dose|Change in International Prostate Symptom Score, Change (from baseline to 6 months post-intervention) in International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS). The IPSS score ranges from 0-35. Higher scores mean a worse symptom., Baseline to up to 6 months post-intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of rilimogene-galvacirepvec (PROSTVAC) on the change (from pre to post-intervention) in CD8+ positive cells in the stroma adjacent to tumor and within the malignant portion of the prostate biopsies.

II. To determine the effect of PROSTVAC on the change in CD4+ positive cells in the stroma adjacent to tumor and within the malignant portion of the prostate biopsies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on PD-L1 positive cells in the stroma adjacent to tumor and within the malignant portion of the prostate biopsies.

II. To assess the correlation between the change in CD8+ and the change in PSA. III. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on CD8+, CD4+, and PD-L1 positive cells in the benign portion of the prostate biopsies.

IV. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on the change in PSA. V. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on tumor grade (Gleason score). VI. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on tumor extent (percent of positive random biopsy cores).

VII. To compare the proportion of men on the two study arms with no cancer on post-intervention biopsy.

VIII. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on the size of the dominant lesion on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (largest histopathologically confirmed lesion) in the subgroup of patients with MRIs pre and postintervention.

IX. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on circulating 15-Mer PSA-specific, MUC-1 and Brachyury-specific T cells.

X. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on soluble antibodies to tumor-associated antigens.

XI. To assess the immunologic effects of PROSTVAC in prostate tissue using multiplex immunofluorescence.

XII. To assess the safety and feasibility of PROSTVAC in the active surveillance population.

XIII. To assess the effect of PROSTVAC on lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in the active surveillance population.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive rilimogene-galvacirepvec subcutaneously (SC) at baseline and on days 14, 28, 56, 84, 112, and 140.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo SC at baseline and on days 14, 28, 56, 84, 112, and 140.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then at 6 months.