Trial of Cabozantinib (XL184) in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With Brain Metastases
This is an open-label phase II clinical trial designed to allow a preliminary assessment of the efficacy and safety of cabozantinib in unselected Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) patients with metastases to the brain and in the subset of patients with c-MET amplified Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer with metastases to the brain. Previously treated patients with non-squamous NSCLC who have had brain metastases at any point in their treatment history are eligible for enrollment on this clinical trial. Patients with clinically asymptomatic untreated brain metastases will be allowed on trial at the discretion of the treating investigator. Patients who have undergone treatment for their brain metastases with Whole-Brain Radiation Therapy (WBRT), stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) or surgery must be clinically stable and recovered from all procedures at the time of study enrollment.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)|Metastases to the Brain
DRUG: cabozantinib
Overall Response, The proportion of response-evaluable patients who achieve Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as best response by RECIST v1.1 criteria. Per RECIST v1.1, Complete Response (CR) is defined as disappearance of all target lesions; disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Partial Response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 12 months
Disease Control Rate (DCR), Proportion of response-evaluable patients that experienced Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) + Stable Disease (SD) as best response (RECIST v1.1 criteria) per the total study population criteria. Per RECIST v1.1, Complete Response (CR) is defined as disappearance of all target lesions; disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Partial Response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Stable Disease (SD) is defined as, neither sufficient shrinkage (compared to baseline) to qualify for partial or complete response (CR or PR) nor sufficient increase (taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters at baseline or while on study, whichever is smallest) to qualify for progressive disease (PD)., Up to 16 weeks|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is the time measured from the initial date of treatment to the date of documented progression, or the date of death (in the absence of progression), whichever occurs first, with progression defined by RECIST v 1.1. Progressive disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Up to 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from the start of treatment that patients remain alive, until death from any cause., Up to 24 months|Time to Progression (TTP), Time from initiation of study treatment to disease progression per RECIST v1.1, excluding death from causes unrelated to the disease. As defined by RECIST v 1.1. Progressive disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Until disease progression; Up to 2 years|Worst Grade of Adverse Events Reported, Worst Grade of Adverse Events Reported as assessed by the investigator. Severity/grade defined by the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

Subjects monitored continuously for Adverse Events (AE's) throughout the study and for 30 days after the last dose of study treatment., From baseline up to 20 weeks|Worst Grade of AE at Least Possibly Related to Treatment Reported, Worst Grade of Adverse Events Reported as assessed by the investigator. Severity/grade defined by the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

Subjects monitored continuously for Adverse Events (AE's) throughout the study and for 30 days after the last dose of study treatment., From baseline up to 20 weeks|Worst Grade of AE at Least Probably Related to Treatment Reported, Worst Grade of Adverse Events Reported as assessed by the investigator. Severity/grade defined by the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

Subjects monitored continuously for Adverse Events (AE's) throughout the study and for 30 days after the last dose of study treatment., From baseline up to 20 weeks|Worst Grade of AE Definitely Related to Treatment Reported:, Worst Grade of Adverse Events Reported as assessed by the investigator. Severity/grade defined by the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

Subjects monitored continuously for Adverse Events (AE's) throughout the study and for 30 days after the last dose of study treatment., From baseline up to 20 weeks
This is a Phase 2, single-arm, open-label study of cabozantinib in subjects with molecularly unselected Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with metastases to the brain and in patients with c-MET amplified Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with metastases to the brain.

Patients will receive cabozantinib at 60 mg orally once daily and continue on treatment until disease progression, death or unacceptable adverse events. Treatment cycles are 4 weeks in duration.

The primary endpoint is Overall Response Rate (ORR) in both the unselected NSCLC population and the molecularly selected patients on the basis of c-MET amplification.