BBPA PET/CT in Patients With Malignant Tumors
This study is an open-labeled phase II diagnostic clinical trial to explore the safety and clinical value of BBPA-PET/CT in suspected malignant tumor patients. The investigation regarding the clinical value of BBPA concerning the metabolic characteristics of BBPA in suspected malignant tumors. Quantitative features will be extracted to analysis the PET images. For patient who took surgery after multiple examination, histopathology, molecular pathology and LAT-1 immunohistochemistry will also be obtained.
Malignant Tumors
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: BBPA PET examination
standardized uptake value (SUV) for BBPA, SUV reflects the uptake of PET tracers, and quantitative imaging features such as SUVmax, SUVmean, and visually assessed features will be measured in the evaluation of tumors., 1 week
Adverse events, Adverse event within 1 week after BBPA injection will be documented., 1 week
In this study, we utilized BBPA, a novel boron amino acid, which replaces the carboxyl group of 4-boronate phenylalanine (BPA) with a boron trifluoride group (-BF3) (-COOH), as a diagnostic molecule for PET imaging of brain tumors, is also a highly efficient boron carrier for BNCT. Preclinical studies suggested \[18F\]BBPA to be a pan-cancer probe that transmembrane transported through large neutral amino acid transporter type-1 (LAT-1). However more studies and evidence are warranted to investigate the clinical value of BBPA PET imaging in human.

This study aim to observe the safety of BBPA, and investigate the diagnostic value of BBPA in the patient with suspected malignant tumors. Patients who meet the eligibility criteria are included in clinical trials after fully communicating the condition, explaining the benefits and risks of clinical trials, clarifying the patient's willingness to include the clinical trial, and signing informed consent. The cohort number, BBPA administrative dose, imaging protocols are decided based on the investigators' preliminary data. The diagnosis and post- examination treatment are based on the recommended guideline, combined with the subject's own situation for standardized diagnosis and treatment