Neoadjuvant Chemo-hormonal Therapy Combined With Radical Prostatectomy for Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer
To evaluate of the value of radical prostatectomy and extended pelvic lymph node dissection in locally advanced prostate cancer after neoadjuvant hormonal therapy with or without docetaxel chemotherapy.
Prostate Cancer|Chemotherapy Effect|Hormone Sensitive Prostate Cancer|Locally Advanced Prostate Carcinoma
DRUG: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with hormone therapy|DRUG: Neoadjuvant hormone therapy|PROCEDURE: Radical Prostatectomy (RP)+ extended lymph node dissection
bPFS (Biochemical progression-free survival), Biochemical recurrence-free survival (bPFS): defined as the time from randomization to biochemical recurrence. The definition of biochemical recurrence is as follows: in the case of normal testosterone levels, the PSA was \>0.2 ng/ml twice for more than 4 consecutive weeks., about 2 years
The 1-year biochemical progression-free survival (bPFS) rate, The ratio of patients whose consecutive postoperative PSA \<0.2ng/ml within 1-year., 1 year|Overall survival (OS), The time from randomization to death due to all causes., 5-10 years|Radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS), The time from randomization to first confirmed imaging progression or death (whichever first is counted). Imaging progression was defined as one of the following: a. Progression of soft tissue lesions as defined in the revised RECIST 1.1 (Appendix 8) found by CT or MRI. b. Confirmation of bone metastasis lesions by ECT or PET-CT examination., 3-5 years|TTPP, The time from randomization to the time when PSA increased by 25%., 1-3 years|ECOG score progression-free survival, The time from treatment to the time of ECOG score progression., 3-5 years
Using larger sample prospective randomized controlled study design, and comparing neoadjuvant HT combined with docetaxel chemotherapy to neoadjuvant HT followed by RP and extended lymph node dissection to determine whether neoadjuvant HT combined with docetaxel chemotherapy can more effectively improve biochemical progression-free survival of locally advanced prostate cancer patients.

Further analysis was performed to determine whether the treatment regimen helped to prolong the radiologic progression-free survival (rPFS) or OS in these patients.

The pathological changes of tumor before and after neoadjuvant treatment were also analyzed. To search for the important risk factors influencing the long-term prognosis of these patients, the safety characteristics of patients in different treatment groups were analyzed. Therefore, it can provide the basis for the formulation of the optimal treatment plan for locally advanced prostate cancer, prolong the survival time of patients and improve the quality of life.

Study design: Prospective，Multicenter, Open-label, Parallel group, Randomized (2:2:1) Controlled , Clinical Trial

Study group: Newly diagnosed, untreated cT3a-cT4 or any cT, cN1 in locally advanced hormone-sensitive prostate cancer.

Study group number: 475 cases, Randomized 2:2:1