Adoptive T Cell Therapy, DC Vaccines, and Hematopoietic Stem Cells Combined With Immune checkPOINT Blockade in Patients With Medulloblastoma
This is a pilot study in a small number of children and young adults with relapsed/progressive medulloblastoma (MB) looking at the feasibility and safety of adoptive cell therapy plus PD-1 blockade.
Recurrent Group 3 Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Group 4 (Non-SHH/Non-WNT) Medulloblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: TTRNA-DC vaccines with GM-CSF|BIOLOGICAL: TTRNA-xALT|DRUG: Td vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: autologous HSCs|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Number of participants with immunotherapy-related dose-limiting toxicities after treatment with TTRNA-DCs, TTRNA-xALT and HSCs plus PD1 blockade, Number of subjects with immunotherapy-related dose-limiting toxicities including 1) Grade III or greater non-neurologic toxicity; 2) Grade III neurologic toxicity that does not improve to Grade II or better within 5 days; or 3) Grade IV neurologic toxicity.

For the purposes of evaluating the safety of ACT combined with PD-1 blockade, dose limiting toxicities will be assessed during the period beginning with administration of ex vivo expanded tumor-reactive (TTRNA- xALT) through 2 weeks post TTRNA -DC vaccine #9.

Safety will be defined as \< 1 DLT out of six enrolled and treated subjects., enrollment to completion of DLT window; up to 12 months|Number of enrolled participants who receive qualified immunotherapy products out of the total number of participants enrolled., Feasibility will be defined as capacity to enroll, manufacture, and administer qualified immunotherapy products (TTRNA-DCs, TTRNA-xALT and HSCs) to at least 66.7% of enrolled subjects., enrollment up to 12 months
This is a single-site, single arm, unblinded, uncontrolled pilot study to evaluate the feasibility and safety of ACT + PD-1 blockade in children and young adults with suspected recurrence/progression of Group 3 or 4 (non-SHH/non-WNT) medulloblastoma since completion of definitive focal +/- craniospinal irradiation who are a candidate for surgical resection or biopsy.

After a screening consent is obtained for the collection of tumor sample, subjects will undergo standard of care resection for tumor debulking or biopsy for confirmatory diagnosis of disease progression. Tumor tissue will be collected during surgery for tumor debulking or biopsy for total tumor RNA and generation of investigational DC vaccine in parallel. Following biopsy and confirmatory pathologic diagnosis of recurrent MB, patients will be enrolled in the treatment phase of the trial after obtaining informed consent.

After surgery, patients will undergo a mobilized pheresis to collect PBMCs for DC generation and CD34+ HSCs. Amplified tumor RNA obtained from surgically resected or biopsied specimens will be used to generate total tumor RNA-pulsed DCs (TTRNA-DCs) manufactured while patients initiate post-surgical salvage chemotherapy regimen.

Salvage chemotherapy prescribed by treating neuro-oncologist will initiate 1-2 weeks after G-CSF mobilized leukapheresis for 1-3 cycles after which, treatment cycles will be paused, and the patients will receive 3 priming TTRNA-DCs vaccines every 2 weeks and undergo a non-mobilized leukapheresis to collect vaccine-boosted lymphocytes for ex vivo T cell expansion and generation of additional TTRNA-DC vaccines. Treatment with salvage chemotherapy will resume with monthly TTRNA-DC vaccines for an additional 1-3 cycles until ex vivo expanded T cells are manufactured and released from the UF cGMP facility.

For ACT, patients will undergo non-myeloablative conditioning with cyclophosphamide/fludarabine followed by infusion of ex vivo expanded tumor-reactive lymphocytes at 3 x 108 cells/Kg, infusion of autologous CD34+ HSCs (targeted dose of 2 x 106 CD34+ HSCs/Kg), PD-1 blockade and three biweekly intradermal TTRNA-DC vaccines to boost T cell engraftment and expansion.

The total immunotherapy regimen will consist of up to 9 intradermal DC vaccines (three -bi-weekly (q2 weeks) for priming, monthly for additional 2-3 cycles during T cell expansion, and three bi-weekly during T cell engraftment), a single intravenous infusion of ex vivo expanded tumor-reactive T cells, and a. single intravenous infusion of autologous HSCs; and PD-1 blockade IV starting with ACT continuing for up to 2 years as long as tolerable and without disease progression.

All patients will receive a full Td booster (5 Lf) IM vaccine 4-24 hours prior to Vaccine #1, regardless of booster history. All patients will undergo vaccine site pretreatment with a one-fifth dose of Td (1 Lf) intradermally, at the site of planned DC vaccine, 4-24 hours prior to vaccines #3, #5, #7 and #9.