T-cells Expressing Anti-CD19 CAR in Pediatric and Young Adults With B-cell Malignancies
This phase 1 / 2 study will evaluate the response of B-cell malignancies expressing CD19 to autologous T cells transduced with a second generation anti-CD19 chimeric antigen receptor in children and young adults.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, B-precursor|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, B-cell
BIOLOGICAL: CD19 CAR T cells
Number of patients with treatment related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4., 2 years|Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate = complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) + complete response with incomplete count recovery (CRi) in leukemia patients; Assessment using bone marrow evaluation for patients with leukemia, and imaging (CT / PET CT) for patients with lymphoma, 28 days|Feasibility of CD19 CAR T cell production as defined by number of products successfully meeting release criteria, For each participant, the feasibility of generating sufficient autologous CAR T cells within 12 days will be evaluated., 12 days
CAR T cell persistence as measured by enumeration of CAR T cells in the blood and bone marrow of participants, Enumeration of CAR T cells in the blood and bone marrow of participants, 1 year|T cell activity and exhaustion profile as measured by flow cytometry, Assessment of T cells from peripheral blood by flow cytometry for expression of activation and exhaustion markers., 3 months|Cytokine levels in the peripheral blood of the patients, Measurement of cytokines in the blood of participants following CAR T cell administration, 30 days
Autologous T cells transduced with chimeric antigen receptors (CAR) that recognize the CD19 antigen (CD19-CAR T cells) have been used in multiple clinical trials at several institutions worldwide. We established an in-house manufacturing process for CD19-CAR T cells with a CD28 (cluster of differentiation 28) costimulatory domain.

Primary Objectives:

1. To study the safety of administration of CAR T cell at the Sheba Medical Center
2. To determine the feasibility and efficacy of administering anti-CD19-CAR T cells in children and young adults with B cell malignancies.

Secondary Objectives

1. To study in vivo and in vitro behavior of CAR T cell in patients, including persistence, expansion, cytotoxic potential and exhaustion.
2. To study the cytokine milieu in CAR treated patients.

Eligibility Patients 1-50 years of age, with a CD19-expressing B-cell malignancy that has recurred after, or not responded to, one or more standard chemotherapy-containing regimens.

Design Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)will be obtained by leukapheresis. Anti-CD19 CAR T cells will be manufactured from fresh autologous PBMCs. PBMC will be cultured in the presence of anti-CD3 (cluster of differentiation 3) antibody and interleukin-2 followed by retroviral vector supernatant containing the anti-CD19 CAR. Total culture time is between 7-10 days. Patients will receive lymphodepleting chemotherapy composed of cyclophosphamide and fludarabine prior to cell infusion, and on day 0 will receive one million CAR T cells per kilogram. Patients will be monitored for toxicity including cytokine release syndrome, hematologic toxicities and B-cell aplasia; for response of their underlying malignancy; and for CAR-T cell persistence in the blood, marrow and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF).