AMG 757 and AMG 404 in Subjects With Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC)
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and recommended phase 2 target dose of tarlatamab in combination with AMG 404.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Tarlatamab|DRUG: AMG 404
Number of Participants Who Experienced Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), A DLT was any of the following during the DLT window, assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.0:

* Grade 3 adverse event (AE) except for fatigue lasting \< 7 days, Grade 3 nonfebrile neutropenia that improved to ≤ Grade 1 within 3 weeks, endocrinopathies if managed with replacement therapy, Grade 3 nausea/vomiting or diarrhea for \< 72 hours, Grade 3 amylase or lipase values not associated with pancreatitis, Grade 3 hematologic laboratory abnormalities not clinically relevant, or Grade 3 electrolyte abnormality up to 72 hours.
* Grade 4 AE except for Grade 4 nonfebrile neutropenia lasting ≤ 7 days, Grade 4 electrolyte abnormality lasting up to 72 hours, Grade 4 amylase or lipase values not associated with pancreatitis, or Grade 4 hematologic laboratory abnormalities no clinically relevant.
* Grade 5 AE
* Recurrent Grade ≥ 2 pneumonitis
* Any other toxicity requiring permanent discontinuation of AMG 404., First dose of tarlatamb or AMG 404 up to 28 days|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical trial participant. A TEAE was an AE that started on or after the first dose of investigational product (IP; tarlatamab or AMG 404) up to 47 days after the last dose of tarlatamab or AMG 404 or the end of study, whichever was earlier. A TEAE for the EP was an AE that occurred after the 47th day after the last dose of tarlatamab or AMG 404 up to 145 days after the last dose of tarlatamab or AMG 404 or end of study, whichever was later. A treatment-related AE was any TEAE where there was a reasonable possibility that the TEAE could have been caused by tarlatamab or AMG 404.

Any clinically significant changes in vital signs, physical examinations, electrocardiograms, and clinical laboratory tests were included as TEAEs., First dose of IP up to 47 days after the last dose of IP (safety follow-up 1 [SFU1]; median duration was 3.0 months); and from the end of SFU1 up to 145 days after the last dose of IP (EP; median duration was 1.7 months)
Objective Response Rate Per Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1, The objective response rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on the modified RECIST v1.1.

CR: complete disappearance of all lesions and pathologic lymph nodes reduced in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: decrease in tumor burden of ≥ 30% relative to baseline, or complete disappearance of all index lesions with the presence of non-index lesions. Confirmation scans were required within 4 weeks of the first documented response of CR or PR. Exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., Cycle 1 day 1 up to 24 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Duration of Response Per Modified RECIST v1.1, The duration of response was defined as the time from first evidence of CR or PR to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first.

CR: complete disappearance of all lesions and pathologic lymph nodes reduced in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: decrease in tumor burden of ≥ 30% relative to baseline, or complete disappearance of all index lesions with the presence of non-index lesions. Confirmation scans were required within 4 weeks of the first documented response of CR or PR. PD: radiologic detection of ≥ 20% increase in tumor burden relative to nadir and ≥ 5 mm absolute increase, or unequivocal progression of non-index lesions, or presence of new lesions. 95% CIs were calculated using the Brookmeyer and Crowley method., Cycle day 1 up to 24 months|Disease Control Rate Per Modified RECIST v1.1, The disease control rate was defined as the number of participants with a best overall response of a confirmed response (CR/PR) or SD while on the study as defined by modified RECIST v1.1.

CR: complete disappearance of all lesions and pathologic lymph nodes reduced in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: decrease in tumor burden of ≥ 30% relative to baseline, or complete disappearance of all index lesions with the presence of non-index lesions. Confirmation scans were required within 4 weeks of the first documented response of CR or PR SD: Index lesions not meeting the criteria for CR, PR, or PD or the persistence of one or more non-index lesions. Exact 95% CIs were calculated using the Clopper-Pearson method., Cycle day 1 up to 24 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Progression-free Survival Per Modified RECIST v1.1, Progression-free survival was defined as the interval from the earlier date of the first dose of tarlatamab or AMG 404 to the earlier of PD per modified RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause.

PD: radiologic detection of ≥ 20% increase in tumor burden to nadir and ≥ 5 mm absolute increase, or unequivocal progression of non-index lesions, or the presence of new lesions.

Confirmation scans were required within 4 weeks of the first documented response of CR or PR, and 4-6 weeks for PD. 95% CIs were calculated using the Brookmeyer and Crowley method., Cycle day 1 up to 24 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the interval from the earlier date of the first dose of tarlatamab or AMG 404 to the event of death due to any cause. Participants who were still alive were censored at the date last known to be alive. If the date last known to be alive was after the data cutoff date, the participant was censored at the analysis trigger date. 95% CIs were calculated using the Brookmeyer and Crowley method., Cycle day 1 up to 24 months|Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) of Tarlatamab in Combination With AMG 404, Blood samples were collected for measurement of serum concentration of tarlatamab., Cycles 1 and 2 day 1 pre-infusion; Cycles 3 and 4 day 1 pre- and post-infusion; and for Cycle 5 onwards, day 1 of each cycle at pre-infusion|Minimum Observed Concentration (Cmin) of Tarlatamab in Combination With AMG 404, Blood samples were collected for measurement of serum concentrations of tarlatamab., Cycles 1 and 2 day 1 pre-infusion; Cycles 3 and 4 day 1 pre- and post-infusion; and for Cycle 5 onwards, day 1 of each cycle at pre-infusion|Area Under the Concentration-time Curve (AUC) Over the Dosing Interval of Tarlatamab in Combination With AMG 404, Blood samples were collected for measurement of serum concentrations of tarlatamab., Cycles 1 and 2 day 1 pre-infusion; Cycles 3 and 4 day 1 pre- and post-infusion; and for Cycle 5 onwards, day 1 of each cycle at pre-infusion
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and recommended phase 2 target dose of tarlatamab in combination with AMG 404.