Perioperative Post-Prostatectomy Incontinence Home Telehealth Program
Many men develop urine leakage after prostate cancer surgery. Usually it is temporary, but pelvic floor muscle training and exercise (including urine control strategies) have been shown to reduce the time to regaining urine control. This study tests an evidence-based, pelvic floor muscle training program that has been adapted to telehealth format and pilot tested in a VA-funded pilot/developmental trial. Training is begun 1-4 weeks before surgery and continued 6 months after surgery. Content is accessed on a secure website in daily 10-minute sessions which transition to weekly sessions for post-operative months 3-6. In the investigators' pilot study, Veterans reported that they appreciated receiving the training in the privacy of their homes, enjoyed the interactive style of the learning experience, and felt better prepared to deal with urine leakage and empowered with new knowledge and skills to help themselves. Content for both control and treatment groups includes general information about prostate cancer; perioperative care; wetness, odor and skin care management. The treatment group will ALSO receive pelvic floor muscle training and bladder control strategies. Outcomes are measured with brief validated questions administered by the telehealth platform, and again at 9 and 12 months by mailed questionnaire or the telehealth platform.
Urinary Incontinence|Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Pelvic Floor Muscle Training|BEHAVIORAL: Perioperative Care and Wetness Management
Time to Continence, Time to continence was based on the time point at which participants reported no urinary incontinence on the International Consultation on Incontinence (ICI) Questionnaire-Urinary Incontinence Short Form (ICIQ-UI SF). ICIQ-UI SF is one of a series of ICI questionnaires that have been meticulously developed and tested. The ICIQ-UI SF is a brief (4 items), reliable (Cronbach's alpha = 0.95), questionnaire that quantifies both symptom burden and impact of incontinence and has been validated in men and women. It was administered weekly during the 6 months after surgery. Scores range from 0-21; higher scores indicate worse condition., 6 months
International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Urinary Incontinence Short Form (ICIQ-UI SF) Total Score, International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Urinary Incontinence Short Form total score. Scores range from 0-21; higher scores indicate worse condition., 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Urinary Incontinence Subscale (EPIC-UI), This measure, validated as a stand-alone assessment, consists of 4 questions from the full Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC), a health-related quality of life assessment tool. The EPIC was developed based on advice from an expert panel and prostate cancer survivors, expanding the 20-item University of California - Los Angeles Prostate Cancer Index. Scores range from 0-100; higher scores indicate worse condition., 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Incontinence Impact Questionnaire - Short Form (IIQ-SF), This measure, validated in men with post-prostatectomy incontinence, measures the impact of incontinence on regular activities. It is a condition-specific quality of life measure that has been widely used in incontinence clinical trials. There are seven items. Response options are: "not at all," "slightly," "moderately," "greatly." Scores range from 0-100; higher scores indicate greater impact., 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|International Prostate Symptom Scale - Quality of Life Question, Validated single question: "If you were to spend the rest of your life with your urinary problem the way it is now, how would you feel about that?" Response options: delighted, pleased, mostly satisfied, mixed (about equally satisfied and dissatisfied), mostly dissatisfied, unhappy, terrible., 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Patient Satisfaction Question (PSQ), Patient's rating of satisfaction (Completely satisfied, Somewhat satisfied, Not at all satisfied), 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Estimated Percent Improvement (EPI), Participant self-report of perceived percent improvement from 0% to 100%, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Global Perception of Improvement (GPI), Participant's global perception of their improvement (Much better, Better, About the same, Worse, Much worse), 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|How Disturbing is Urine Leakage, Single quality of life question: "How disturbing is the urine leakage problem to you?" (not at all, somewhat, or extremely disturbing), 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Activity Restriction, Single quality of life question: "How much does leakage of urine restrict your activities?" (not at all, some of the time, most of the time, all of the time)., 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Return to Work, Single quality of life question: "Have you been able to return to work since your surgery?" (yes, no, retired or disabled), 6 months, 9 months, 12 months|Resumption of Normal Activity, Single quality of life question: "Have you been able to resume your usual activities since your surgery?" (yes, no), 6 months, 9 months, 12 months
Many men develop urine leakage after radical prostatectomy. Usually it is temporary, but pelvic floor muscle training including bladder control strategies has been shown to reduce the severity of incontinence and reduce the time to regaining continence. This study will test an evidence-based pelvic floor muscle training program that has been adapted to telehealth format and pilot tested in a VA-funded pilot/developmental trial. Training is begun 1-4 weeks before surgery and continued 6 months after surgery. Content is accessed on a secure website in daily 10-minute sessions which transition to weekly sessions for post-operative months 3-6. In the investigators' pilot study, Veterans reported that they appreciated receiving the training in the privacy of their homes, enjoyed the interactive style of the learning experience, and felt better prepared to deal with urine leakage and empowered with new knowledge and skills to help themselves.

This study is a randomized, controlled trial of the telehealth-delivered, evidence-based, intervention developed in the pilot/developmental study. Participants will be randomized 1:1 to treatment or to a control group. Content for both control and treatment groups includes general information about prostate cancer; perioperative care; wetness, odor and skin care management. The treatment group will ALSO receive pelvic floor muscle training and bladder control strategies. Outcomes are measured with brief validated questions administered by the telehealth platform, and again at 9 and 12 months by mailed questionnaire or the telehealth platform.