Effect of Preoperative Immunonutrition Versus Standard Oral Nutrition in Patient Undergoing Colorectal Surgery.
This is a randomised controlled clinical trial . The investigators aim to compare the effects of preoperative immune modulating enteral nutrition and standard oral nutrition supplement on clinical outcomes of the patients undergo colorectal cancer surgery.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does immunonutrition preoperatively facilitate earlier return of Gastrointestinal function?
2. Does immunonutrition significantly reduce risk of post-operative surgical site infections?
3. Does immunonutrition significantly reduce duration of hospital stay in patients undergoing colorectal surgery?

Immunonutrition can be defined as modulation of either the activity of the immune system, or modulation of the consequences of activation of the immune system, by nutrients or specific food items fed in amounts above those normally encountered in the diet.

Oral IMPACT is readily available immunonutrition consist of 3.3 g of arginine,0.8 g of omega-3 fatty acids and 3.0 g of nucleotides per servings.

Nutren Optimum is a balanced nutritional supplement that enhance body natural defence and support recovery during illness. However, it does not consist all the component of immunonutritons. Hence , Oral IMPACT will be used as study sample on experimental arm whereas Nutren optimum will be used as study sample on control arm.

Partipicant will be randomised into this two arm and then they will consume the respective arm study material for total of 7 days preoperatively.

Data will be collected in post operative period and will be analysed.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Oral Impact|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutren Optimum
Physiology Return of Bowel Function, To compare the time of the first flatus and first bowel evacuation between Oral Impact® and Nutren Optimum ® when consumed in the preoperative in those undergoing colorectal surgery., Through study completion , an average of 1 year
Surgical Site Infection, To associate the difference on post operative surgical site infection in between those consuming Oral Impact® versus Nutren Optimum ® in the preoperative period after colorectal surgery., 30 days post operative period|Length of Hospital Stay, To study on the differences on duration of hospital stay after colorectal surgery in those consuming Oral Impact® and Nutren Optimum ®, From date of admission until patient is discharged back home or date of death from any cause during admission , whichever come first ,accessed up to 1 year
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the commonest cancer in Malaysian men and the second most common cancer in Malaysian women, accounting for age standardized rate of 14.8 and 11.1 incidences per 100,000 population respectively.

Oncological colonic resection is one of mainstay treatment modality for colorectal tumour. Major surgery precipitate release of stress hormones, inflammatory mediators and metabolic changes resulting in significant catabolic phenomena. This sequentially imposed significant dysfunction of the overall host homeostasis, defence mechanism and inflammatory response. Hence, the major setbacks of colorectal surgery are delay return of normal bowel physiology state, post-operative complications and prolonged hospital stay. This affects patients physiologically and psychologically.

Traditionally , patients undergo major abdominal surgery will be kept nil per oral for 6 to 12 hours prior to operation. Post operatively, parenteral or enteral fluids given until bowel function returns to normal. Fortunately, the introduction of the Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) programs in last decade has led to enhanced in the recovery of patients postoperatively. The main aspects of substantial improvements in the care of postoperative patients include early initiation of oral intake as soon as possible, integration of nutrition support ,metabolic control and early mobilisation.

As nutritional status plays a significant role to influence the clinical outcomes, nutrition support has been widely used for elective colorectal surgery patients. Literature reported that nutritional risk rate of cancer patients to be 26% to 76 %, higher than of general patients.

Immunonutrition has been used as therapeutic options for peri-operative nutritional management in patients undergoing surgery. The nutrients of immunonutrition formula usually include arginine, omega-3 fatty acids, glutamine and nucleotides.

The current international guidelines recommend that patient's with high risk of malnutrition should be given immunonutrition in perioperative period prior to major oncologic surgeries.These guidelines are based on randomized controlled trials demonstrating a reduction in the rate of post-operative complications.

Oral IMPACT is readily available immunonutrition consist of 3.3 g of arginine,0.8 g of omega-3 fatty acids and 3.0 g of nucleotides per servings. It comes in sachet form which mixed with water prior to consumption. Multiple randomised controlled trial supported Oral IMPACT as immunonutrition.

Nutren Optimum is a balanced nutritional supplement that enhance body natural defence and support recovery during illness. However, it does not consist all the component of immunonutritons. Hence , Oral IMPACT will be used as study sample on experimental arm whereas Nutren optimum will be used as study sample on control arm.

In nutshell , it is important for proper perioperative nutritional support for patients scheduled for colorectal surgery. It remain as major advantage for successful procedure.

In the light of this guideline investigators aimed to compare the effects of preoperative immune modulating enteral nutrition and standard oral nutrition supplement on clinical outcomes of the patients undergo colorectal cancer surgery.