Breast Cancer and Kinesiophobia and Physical Activity
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer in women worldwide. A significant number of breast cancer survivors develop many complications. Breast cancer and survivors may develop a fear of physical activity avoidance and movement, called kinesiophobia, due to upper extremity pain, numbness, restricted arm/shoulder range of motion, and risk of lymphedema. Therefore, in the present study, it is aimed to compare the effect of fear of movement on physical activity, quality of life and psychological states in women who have had breast cancer with healthy people.
Breast Cancer|Kinesiophobia
OTHER: None intervention
Tampa Kinesiophobia Scale, The TAMPA Kinesiophobia Scale consists of 17 questions. Each question is scored between 1-4. The maximum score is 68, with high scores indicating an increased severity of kinesiophobia. A score of more than 37 indicates high severity of kinesiophobia., Six month|Questionnaire on exercise barriers, This questionnaire contains a total of 35 obstacles. These obstacles are; symptom-related (n = 10), individual (n = 10), psychosocial (n = 8) and environmental (n = 7) factors. You will be asked if these obstacles prevent you from exercising., Six month|INTERNATIONAL PHYSICAL ACTIVITY QUESTIONNAIRES (IPAQ), Physical activity level measured in Metabolic Equivalent, Six month
Fatigue Severity Scale, This scale consists of nine items. Each item is scored between 1 and 7, and as the total score decreases, fatigue decreases., Six month|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, The lowest score that patients can get from both subscales is 0, and the highest score is 21. A high score indicates high anxiety and depression values., Six month|Evaluation of Quality of Life: EORTC-Quality of Life -C 30, High scores indicate a high quality of life, and low scores indicate a decreased quality of life., Six month
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer in women worldwide. A significant number of breast cancer survivors develop many complications. Breast cancer and survivors may develop a fear of physical activity avoidance and movement, called kinesiophobia, due to upper extremity pain, numbness, restricted arm/shoulder range of motion, and risk of lymphedema. Therefore, in the present study, it is aimed to compare the effect of fear of movement on physical activity, quality of life and psychological states in women who have had breast cancer with healthy people.