Analysis of the Risk Factors for the Neutropenic Fever in the High Risk NHL Patients for Developing Febrile Neutropenia Who Received 3-weekly CHOP-like Chemotherapy With Primary G-CSF Prophylaxis; Prospective Multicenter Observation Study
The domestic standards of G-CSF permit the use of the G-CSF only when the ANC(absolute neutrophil count) drops to 1,000/uL or below. Therefore it is impossible to inject the G-CSF in order to prevent neutropenia. However, 'the 2006 Update of Recommendations for the Use of White Blood Cell Growth Factors: An Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guideline(J ClinOncol 2006; 24:3187-3205)' and the 'NCCN Guideline' have revealed that as a precaution, it is appropriate to inject the G-CSF to the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients with high-risk factors under the anticancer treatment of CHOP-21 Rituximab before the number of neutrophils decreases. Thus, it is intended to analyze the risk factors of febrile neutropenia in a high-risk group of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients with a neutropenic fever who receive the CHOP-like regimen and primary G-CSF prophylactic therapy every three weeks. (The definition of neutropenic fever is a fever over 38.3 degrees C or continuous fever lasting longer than 1 hour over 38 degrees C with the number of neutrophil ≤ 500/uL or neutrophil ≤ 1,000/uL in case of expected decline to ≤ 500/uL within 48 hours.)
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
Hospitalization period, Hospitalization relevant to this during the occurrence of febrile neutropenia under anticancer treatments, 24months
The domestic standards of G-CSF permit the use of the G-CSF only when the ANC(absolute neutrophil count) drops to 1,000/uL or below. Therefore it is impossible to inject the G-CSF in order to prevent neutropenia. However, 'the 2006 Update of Recommendations for the Use of White Blood Cell Growth Factors: An Evidence-Based Clinical Practice Guideline(J ClinOncol 2006; 24:3187-3205)' and the 'NCCN Guideline' have revealed that as a precaution, it is appropriate to inject the G-CSF to the non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients with high-risk factors under the anticancer treatment of CHOP-21 Rituximab before the number of neutrophils decreases. Thus, it is intended to analyze the risk factors of febrile neutropenia in a high-risk group of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients with a neutropenic fever who receive the CHOP-like regimen and primary G-CSF prophylactic therapy every three weeks. (The definition of neutropenic fever is a fever over 38.3 degrees C or continuous fever lasting longer than 1 hour over 38 degrees C with the number of neutrophil ≤ 500/uL or neutrophil ≤ 1,000/uL in case of expected decline to ≤ 500/uL within 48 hours.)