HIV Antigen-specific T-cells Targeting Conserved Epitopes (HST-NEETs) BMTCTN1903
This is a Phase II multi-center trial single arm trial of autologous transplantation (ASCT) followed by administration of HST-NEETs for treatment of HIV associated lymphoma
HIV Associated Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: HST-NEETs|BIOLOGICAL: Bone Marrow Transplant
To determine 1.) the proportion of participants who can be treated with (HST-NEETs) within 1 week of ASCT in a cooperative multi-institutional setting and 2.) the efficacy of HSTNEETs in reducing the HIV intact proviral, Feasibility is defined as a participant receiving HST-NEETs within 1 week post-ASCT; Efficacy will be measured by the reduction in intact proviral reservoir., 6 Months
Progression-free survival, Participants are considered a failure for this endpoint if they die or if they relapse/progress or receive anti-lymphoma therapy, other than post-transplant consolidative localized radiation (maximum 3 sites) to sites of prior bulk disease pre-transplant (greater than 3cm), 6 Months and 1 Year|The incidence and severity of acute infusion related toxicities, Acute infusion related toxicities are defined as toxicities related to the infusion of HST-NEETs that occur within 24 hours of the infusion., 1 Year|Impact of therapy on the HIV intact proviral reservoir, Impact on intact proviral reservoir will be assessed using the IPDA at 4-8 weeks prior to transplant and 12 months following ASCT, 1 Year
Complete Response(CR) and Complete Response + Partial Response(PR) rates, CR or PR will be assessed according to the LYRIC criteria, 100 Days|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as death from any cause, 6 months and 1 year|Time to hematopoietic recovery, Time to neutrophil recovery will be the first of three consecutive labs of greater than or equal to 500 neutrophils/μL following the expected nadir. Time to platelet engraftment will be the date platelet count is greater than or equal to 20,000/μL for the first of three consecutive labs with no platelet transfusions 7 days prior., 1 Year|Incidence of infections, The incidence of viral, fungal and bacterial infections will be tabulated. All Grade 2 and Grade 3 infections will be reported according to the BMT CTN Technical MOP from Day 0 up to 1 year post-transplant. Infections of interest will be captured and described. The incidence rate of infections is defined by the number of infections divided by the total person-time accumulated over the duration of the study., 1 Year|Non-relapse mortality, Non-Relapse Mortality (NRM) is defined as death occurring in a participant without relapse progression and will be measured at 6 months and at 1 year., 6 Months 1 Year|Toxicities, Toxicities related to the BEAM conditioning regimen and HST-NEETs infusion beyond the 24 hour acute toxicity monitoring period will be defined by using the version 5.0 CTCAE criteria. All grades of toxicity related to HST-NEETs will be collected. Only grade 3 or higher conditioning regimen related toxicities will be collected., 1 Year|Assessment of plasma DNA in blood (clonal Ig DNA) as a tumor marker, Blood specimens will be collected prior to the initiation of conditioning, and at Days 100, 6 months and 1 year post-ASCT. The presence of clonal Ig DNA in plasma will be assessed at each of these time points., 100 days, 6 months, 1 year|Impact of therapy on the HIV intact proviral reservoir, Impact on intact proviral reservoir assessed using the IPDA Day 100 post-ASCT as compared to baseline at 4-8 weeks prior to transplant., 100 Days|HIV RNA in plasma, HIV RNA in plasma will be measured by a sensitive investigational single copy assay (SCA, detection limit 0.38 copy/ml). Blood specimens will be collected, and plasma HIV RNA measured, at study visits corresponding to those associated with IPDA testing: 4-8 weeks prior to transplant, and at Days 100, 6 months and 1 year post-ASCT., 100 Days, 6 Months, 1 Year|Impact of therapy on the total proviral HIV DNA, This assay will be measured at study visits corresponding to those associated with IPDA testing: 4-8 weeks prior to transplant, and at Days 100, 6 months and 1 year post-ASCT. This assay will provide information about the proviral reservoir in patients where the IPDA fails due to sequence variation., 100 days, 6 months, 1 year|HST-NEETs persistence and expansion in vivo, Persistence and expansion of HST-NEETs will be measured by frequency of HIV-1 antigen-specific (gag, pol, nef) CD8+ T-cells by ELIspot at baseline and post-infusion at timepoints at Day 100, 6 months, and 1 year post transplant. Change in T cell responses from baseline to post-infusion, measured by frequency of cells secreting IFN-γ by multimer analysis and/or intracellular cytokine staining and/or ELIspot and/or TCR sequencing will be done depending on PBMC cell numbers available and reagent availability., 100 days, 6 months, and 1 year
Eligible participants will have 100-120 mL of peripheral blood or 80-100 mL of MNCs via apheresis collected and shipped to Children's National Hospital at ambient temperature. The sample will be used to manufacture the HST-NEET product. The autologous peripheral blood stem cell graft suitable for rescue following conditioning will be obtained either before or after the collection of blood to generate HST-NEETs. Pre-transplant conditioning will consist of BEAM; BCNU 300 mg/m\^2 on Day -6, Etoposide 100 mg/m\^2 BID and Ara-C 100 mg/m2 BID on Days -5, -4, -3 and -2 and Melphalan 140 mg/m2 on Day -1. ASCT on Day 0. If the mobilized graft contains greater than 5.0 x 106 CD34+ cells per kg, any additional cells should be cryopreserved as a "back-up" graft in the event of graft failure related to the HST-NEETs. Participants will receive one dose (2 x 107 cells/m\^2 ) of HST-NEETs between Days +3 to +7 based on the clinical condition of the participant. If this window is missed, the HST-NEETs may be administered up to Day +30 post-ASCT. Participants will be followed for at least one year after ASCT.