A Prospective, Single-arm, Phase II Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Tafolecimab and Sintilimab Combined With Chemotherapy in Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Driver Gene-negative Non-small Cell Lung Cancer After Failure of First-line Immunotherapy.
The second-line treatment for patients who have progressed after first-line immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy, is chemotherapy based on docetaxel and other drugs. The treatment effect is limited. The median survival time of them are 6 months. So there is a huge unmet medical need.

This study is a Prospective, Single-arm, Phase II Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Tafolecimab and Sintilimab Combined With Chemotherapy in Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Driver Gene-negative Non-small Cell Lung Cancer After Failure of First-line Immunotherapy. 30 patients will be enrolled.

The main endpoint is PFS，and the secondary endpoint are OS,DCR,DOR,ORR, and so on.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Tafolecimab|DRUG: Sintilimab|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine
PFS, PFS defined as the time from first dose of study treatment until the first date of either objective disease progression or death due to any cause., up to 24 months
OS, OS is defined as the time until death due to any cause. OS is defined as the time until death due to any cause.

OS is defined as the time until death due to any cause., up to 24 months|DCR, Defined as the proportion of patients with a documented complete response, partial response, and stable disease (CR + PR + SD) based on RECIST 1.1., up to 24 months|DOR, defined as time since onset of CR or PR to relapse or death due to underlying cancer, whichever is earlier defined as time since onset of CR or PR to relapse or death due to underlying cancer, whichever is earlier defined as time since onset of CR or PR to relapse or death due to underlying cancer, whichever is earlier defined as time since onset of CR or PR to relapse or death due to underlying cancer, whichever is earlier defined as time since onset of CR or PR to relapse or death due to underlying cancer, whichever is earlier Defined as time since onset of CR or PR to relapse or death due to underlying cancer, whichever is earlier, up to 24 months|ORR, ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1.prior to progression or any further therapy., up to 24 months|AE, Evaluation of adverse event rate according to CTCAE(Common terminology criteria for adverse events) v5.0, up to 24 months
To explore the use of iRECIST to evaluate the efficacy treatment of tolecizumab, To explore the use of iRECIST to evaluate the efficacy treatment of tolecizumab, up to 24 months|Explore potential biomarkers that can predict efficacy, including but not limited to PD-L1 expression levels and TMB., Explore potential biomarkers that can predict efficacy, including but not limited to PD-L1 expression levels and TMB., up to 24 months
This is a Prospective, Single-arm, Phase II Clinical Trial to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Tafolecimab and Sintilimab Combined With Chemotherapy in Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Driver Gene-negative Non-small Cell Lung Cancer After Failure of First-line Immunotherapy.

30 patients will be enrolled. These patients will be treated with chemotherapy combined with sintilimab and Tafolecimab.

The main endpoint is PFS，and the secondary endpoint are OS,DCR,DOR,ORR, and so on.