Prophylactic Cholecystectomy in Midgut NETs Patients Who Require Primary Tumor Surgery.
The investigators want to study the effectiveness of prophylactic cholecystectomy in patients with midgut neuroendocrine tumor (jejunum, ileum or proximal colon) who require primary tumor surgery. When patients are diagnosed and are tributary to surgical treatment, the tumor might compromise vascularization, and patients need an extensive bowel resection. The patients might also receive medical treatment with somatostatin analogs. The combination of extensive bowel resection and medical treatment might increase gallbladder stones, but patients might not develop biliary stone disease, as in the general population, where 20% of the population have gallbladder stones but only a 10 to 15 % of the population will develop symptoms.

The idea comes from the lack of literature about the incidence of biliary Stone disease in patients with midgut NET tumors.

It's a multicentric, open-label and randomized clinical trial to evaluate the incidence of biliary stone disease in patients with midgut NET who require primary tumor surgery combined or not to cholecystectomy.

Our hypothesis suggests that patients with midgut neuroendocrine tumor who require primary tumor resection without the combination of prophylactic cholecystectomy do not have an increased incidence of biliary stone disease two years after the surgery, regardless of treatment with SSA.
Midgut Carcinoid Tumor|Biliary Stones
PROCEDURE: Primary tumor surgery|PROCEDURE: Primary tumor surgery (bowel resection) combined with prophylactic cholecystectomy
To evaluate the rate of biliary stone disease associated to patients with midgut NET that have gone through primary tumor surgery., Incidence of biliary stone disease in patients with midgut NET who requiere primary tumor surgery, Two years after the surgery
To assess the incidence of post-operative complications until day 28 +/- 3 (1 Month) after the surgery., Postoperative complications according Clavien-Dindo classification, One month after the surgery|To assess the incidence of: anastomotic dehiscence, wound infection, reoperation., Specific complications, One month after the surgery|To evaluate the incidence of gallstone in patients who require a bowel resection and/or ileocecal junction resection., choledochal lithiasis or cholelithiasis, Two years after the surgery|To evaluate de incidence of gallstones in patients who will receive medical treatment with SSA, choledochal lithiasis or cholelithiasis according medical treatment, Two years after the surgery|To describe bowel movements of patients after the surgery., Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index (GIQLY);Minimum value of 0 (the worst health state) and a maximum of 100 (best health state), Two years after the surgery|To compare quality of life in patients who went through a prophylactic cholecystectomy against those who did not., Health related Quality of life 15 D (HRQoL 15D);There are 15 areas with a minimum value of 0 (the worst health state) and a maximum of 100 (best health state) 15D, Two years after the surgery
Title: Effectiveness of prophylactic cholecystectomy in patients with midgut neuroendocrine tumor (jejunum, ileum or proximal colon) who require primary tumor surgery. Randomized, proof of concept clinical trial.

Background: The prevalence of midgut NET has increased due to advances in diagnostic tests and its indolent course. When patients are diagnosed, they might be tributary to surgical treatment requiring an extensive bowel resection, and medical treatment with somatostatin analogs. Both treatments are related with gallbladder stone formation. The ENETS and NANETs recommend prophylactic cholecystectomy in patients with midgut NET who require primary tumor surgery, However, there is a lack of scientific evidence reinforcing this recommendation.

Objectives: The main objective is to evaluate the cumulated incidence rate of biliary stone disease in patients with midgut NET who require primary tumor resection, two years after the surgery.

Design: It's a multicentric, open-label and randomized clinical trial. Patients will be recruited from the General Surgery Services of the six Hospitals participating in the study. Patients must fullfill inclusion and exclusion criteria.

It is expected to recruit a maximum of one hundred patients in two years (50 per group). Patients will be randomly assigned into the Experimental group (primary tumor resections) or Control group (primary tumor resections combined with cholecystectomy). The investigators will follow up patients until week 104 after surgery (8 visits).