Expanded Access Program of Venetoclax and Navitoclax for Pediatric Patients with Relapsed or Refractory ALL or LL
The overall goal of this expanded access program is to provide Venetoclax and Navitoclax to patients with acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) or lymphoblastic lymphoma (LL) who have exhausted standard treatments.
Relapsed Childhood ALL|Relapsed Childhood Lymphoblastic Lymphoma
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Navitoclax
Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is a cancer of the immature lymphocytes, a type of white blood cell involved in the body's immune system. People with ALL have lymphocytes that do not mature (lymphoblast). Lymphoblasts replace healthy lymphocytes within the bone marrow and other organs in the lymphatic system.

Lymphoblastic lymphoma (LL) is an aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. It is relatively rare, accounting for approximately 2% of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas. In lymphoblastic lymphoma, the abnormal lymphoblasts are present in the lymph nodes or thymus gland, whereas in ALL, the abnormal lymphoblasts are mainly in the blood and bone marrow. Clinically, lymphoblastic lymphoma behaves very similarly to ALL, and the two conditions are often treated with the same regimens.

There have been several recent developments in the treatment of B-ALL, the most common cancer seen in pediatrics. While the cure rate of B-ALL is greater than 90%, children with B-ALL are treated with aggressive chemotherapy regimens that frequently result in long-term toxicities (Oeffinge, Hunger) Furthermore, the patients who experience a relapse have poor outcomes despite treatment with additional chemotherapy often followed by allogeneic stem cell transplant (AlloSCT). The primary predictor of outcome for relapsed B-ALL is the time to relapse; patients who relapse after completing chemotherapy have a cure rate of approximately 50% while those who relapse during treatment have a much lower cure rate of 20-30% (Sun).

Apoptotic pathway targeting therapies, such as navitoclax show promise in the treatment of ALL and LL. Venetoclax +Navitoclax in combination with chemotherapy is well tolerated, with few discontinuations or dose reductions from adverse events (AEs) in patients with relapsed/refractory ALL or LL. The preliminary efficacy of Venetoclax

+Navitoclax was promising in a heavily pretreated population of patients including those with prior SCT or CAR-T, with high rates of Complete response (CR)/complete response with incomplete count recovery (Cri)/complete response with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp), and 10/18 (56%) had undetectable minimal residual disease (MRD). Additional correlative biomarker analyses are ongoing (Pullarkat)