Development of a Novel Signature Integrating Clinical, Imaging And Epigenetic Information to Tailor Pelvic Nodal Treatment in Prostate Cancer
Radical prostatectomy (RP) represents one treatment option for clinically localized PCa. The most updated guidelines of the European Association of Urology indicate the need to perform ePLND in patients with a LNI risk \>5% according to the Briganti nomogram. It allows for sparing ePLND in two thirds of contemporary surgically treated patients, but many patients still receive an ePLND in the absence of lymph node metastases. This is key, since ePLND is associated with significant risks of complications. Improving our ability to detect LNI in PCa would be key for two main reasons: 1. To administer more timely treatments which in turn improve patient outcomes. 2. To avoid significant overtreatment and spare ePLND-related toxicity. Our hypothesis is that lymphatic spread of PCa cells might be predicted through integration of clinical variables, radiologic and epigenomic information. We aim at developing an accurate predictive model that includes radiological and epigenomic information.
Prostate Cancer (Adenocarcinoma)
GENETIC: Data will be used to develop a novel predictive model assessing the risk of LNI.
All patients treated with RP + PLND will have available information from clinical data, histo-pathological data, pre-operative mp-MRI, and epigenomic analysis. These data will be used to develop a novel predictive model assessing the risk of LNI., 2020-2024
Radical prostatectomy (RP) represents one treatment option for clinically localized PCa. The most updated guidelines of the European Association of Urology indicate the need to perform ePLND in patients with a LNI risk \>5% according to the Briganti nomogram. It allows for sparing ePLND in two thirds of contemporary surgically treated patients, but many patients still receive an ePLND in the absence of lymph node metastases. This is key, since ePLND is associated with significant risks of complications. Improving our ability to detect LNI in PCa would be key for two main reasons: 1. To administer more timely treatments which in turn improve patient outcomes. 2. To avoid significant overtreatment and spare ePLND-related toxicity. Our hypothesis is that lymphatic spread of PCa cells might be predicted through integration of clinical variables, radiologic and epigenomic information. We aim at developing an accurate predictive model that includes radiological and epigenomic information.