Subcutaneous Alemtuzumab (CAMPATH®, MabCampath®) in Relapsed/Refractory B-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
This is a Phase II, open-label, prospective, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of subcutaneously administered alemtuzumab (CAMPATH, MabCampath) as therapy for patients with relapsed or refractory B-CLL who have been previously treated.
B-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (B-CLL)
BIOLOGICAL: Alemtuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: Alemtuzumab
Number of Participants With Best Disease Response as Determined by the Independent Response Review Panel (IRRP), Participants were evaluated by the IRRP according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) 1996 response criteria. The best response observed during the study is summarized. Response categories include Complete Response (CR) with normal physical exam, marrow cells and blood values, Partial Response (PR) with a \>= 50% decrease from baseline in lymphocytes, lymphadenopathy and liver or spleen exam, Stable Disease (SD) without significant progression from baseline, or Progressive Disease (PD) with increased size/number of nodes, size of liver or spleen, increase in lymphocytes, aggressive histology., up to 44 weeks|Percentage of Participants Who Had an Overall Response (OR) as Determined by the Independent Response Review Panel (IRRP), Participants were evaluated by the IRRP according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) 1996 response criteria. The percentage of participants whose best response observed during the study was either a Complete Response (CR) or a Partial Response (PR). Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. A Complete Response (CR) exhibits a normal physical exam, marrow cells and blood values. A Partial Response (PR) has a \>= 50% decrease from baseline in lymphocytes, lymphadenopathy and liver or spleen exam., up to 44 weeks
Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Progression Free Survival as Determined by the Independent Response Review Panel (IRRP), Progression-free survival was defined as the number of days from the date of first treatment to the date of first objective documentation of progressive disease (PD) as determined by the IRRP, or death due to any cause. Results are expressed in months.

Progressive Disease (PD) was defined as an increase in size/number of nodes, size of liver or spleen, increase in lymphocytes, or aggressive histology., up to 5 years|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Duration of Response as Determined by the Independent Response Review Panel (IRRP), Duration of response was analyzed for participants who achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and was defined as the number of days from the first date of documented response to the date of progressive disease (PD) as determined by IRRP or death due to any cause. Results are stated in months.

Progressive Disease (PD) was defined as an increase in size/number of nodes, size of liver or spleen, increase in lymphocytes, or aggressive histology., up to 5 years|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time in days from the date of first treatment to the date of death due to any cause for all participants. Results are stated in months., up to 5 years|Participants With a Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Status of Negative, MRD negativity represents a very positive response outcome. MRD negativity in this report was defined by the absence of tumor cells in bone marrow, using 4-color flow cytometry. All patients are evaluated for treatment response based on National Cancer Institute Working Group (NCIWG) criteria. Of patients who have achieved a clinical complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) that met National Cancer Institute Working Group (NCIWG) criteria of CR except blood recovery, a bone marrow sample was taken for flow cytometry measure of MRD negativity., 44 weeks|Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), Number of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs). AEs were graded by the investigator using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0 and were assessed for relatedness to study treatment (5 point scale from 'not related' to 'definitely related') and severity (5 point scale with grade 5 being most severe). Categories reported include participant counts for treatment-emergent AEs, injection site reactions, AEs for infections, serious AEs, AEs causing discontinuation of study drug(s), deaths and severity., up to 18 weeks of treatment plus 45 days
This is a Phase II, open-label, prospective, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of subcutaneously administered alemtuzumab (CAMPATH, MabCampath) as therapy for patients with relapsed or refractory B-CLL who have been previously treated.