Study of Akt Inhibitor MK2206 in Patients With Relapsed Lymphoma
This phase II clinical trial studies how well Akt inhibitor MK2206 works in treating patients with relapsed lymphoma. Akt inhibitor MK2206 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adult Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-cell Lymphoma|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma|B-cell Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Cutaneous B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Hepatosplenic T-cell Lymphoma|Intraocular Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Noncutaneous Extranodal Lymphoma|Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia|Small Intestine Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|T-cell Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|T-cell Large Granular Lymphocyte Leukemia|Testicular Lymphoma|Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Akt inhibitor MK2206|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Complete Response (CR) Disappearance of all evidence of disease(a) FDG-avid or PET positive prior to therapy; mass of any size permitted if PET negative (b) Variably FDG-avid or PET negative; regression to normal size on CT Not palpable, nodules disappeared Infiltrate cleared on repeat biopsy; if indeterminate by morphology, immuno histochemistry should be negative.

Partial Response (PR) Regression of measurable disease and no new sites, 50% decrease in , sum of the product of the diameters SPD of up to 6 largest dominant masses; no increase in size of other nodes(a) FDG-avid or PET positive prior to therapy; one or more PET positive at previously involved site (b) Variably FDG-avid or PET negative; regression on CT, 50% decrease in SPD of nodules (for single nodule in greatest transverse diameter); no increase in size of liver or spleen, Irrelevant if positive prior to therapy; cell type should be specified., 4 months
Progression-free Survival, Kaplan-Meier method was used. The log-rank test was performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. Cox proportional hazards model was used to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis., From treatment start date until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first.|Duration of Response, Kaplan-Meier method was used. The log-rank test was performed to test the difference in time-to-event distributions between patient groups. Cox proportional hazards model was used to include multiple covariates in the time-to-event analysis., From the time measurement criteria are met for complete response or partial response (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented.|Overall Survival, Number of surviving participants without disease progression or death for any reason at one year post treatment. Kaplan-Meier method was used., From the start of treatment to death or 30 days after removal from the study whichever occurs first|Number of Participants With Change in Cytokine Levels With p Values <0.05, The changes in the cytokine levels from baseline analyzed by Wilcoxon signed rank test. P values \< 0.05 were considered statistically significant., Baseline to up to 30 days post-treatment|Number of Participants With Change in Chemokine Levels With p Values <0.05, The changes in the chemokine levels from baseline analyzed by Wilcoxon signed rank test. P values \< 0.05 were considered statistically significant., Baseline to up to 30 days post-treatment|Number of Participants With Change in Biomarker Levels With p Values <0.05, The changes in the cytokine levels from baseline analyzed by Wilcoxon signed rank test. P values \< 0.05 were considered statistically significant., Baseline to up to 30 days post-treatment|Incidence of Adverse Events as Graded by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Toxicity data will be summarized by frequency tables., Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate (ORR) of MK-2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206) in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the progression free survival (PFS) of MK-2206 in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphoma.

II. Assess the safety and tolerability of MK-2206 monotherapy. III. Examine pretreatment phosphorylated v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (pAkt) protein expression by immunohistochemistry, and correlate the results with treatment response.

IV. Examine the effect of therapy on serum cytokines and chemokines that regulate the tumor-promoting inflammatory process and/or immunity in patients with relapsed/refractory lymphoma, and correlate the results with treatment response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) once weekly. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.