Borderline Pancreas Study: FOLFIRINOX +SBRT
Primary Objective: To determine the rate of downstaging to resectability in patients with borderline resectable pancreatic cancer receiving FOLFIRINOX and SBRT as preoperative therapy.

Secondary Objective(s):

1. To assess the disease-free-survival, overall survival, time to recurrence and site of recurrence in patients with borderline resectable pancreatic cancer receiving preoperative FOLFIRINOX followed by SBRT
2. To investigate the safety and tolerability of FOLFIRINOX and SBRT in patients with resectable pancreatic cancer
3. To determine the radiologic and pathological response associated with preoperative SBRT and FOLFIRINOX therapy
4. To assess quality of life through and after treatment using the FACT-Hep questionnaire
Resectable Pancreatic Cancer
OTHER: Chemotherapy(FOLFIRINOX) + SBRT prior to surgery if applicable|DRUG: -Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 IV on Day 1|DRUG: -Irinotecan 180 mg/m2 IV on Day 1|DRUG: -5-FU (Fluorouracil) 2,400 mg/m2 IV over 46-48 hours
Rate of downstaging to resectability in patients with borderline resectable pancreatic cancer receiving FOLFIRINOX and SBRT as preoperative therapy., To determine the rate of downstaging to resectability in patients with borderline resectable pancreatic cancer receiving FOLFIRINOX and SBRT as preoperative therapy (AGGC 6th edition)., Participants will be followed from randomization up to 120 months or death (from any cause) whichever comes first.
Survival status (disease-free-survival vs. overall survival) time to recurrence and site of recurrence in patients with borderline resectable pancreatic cancer receiving preoperative FOLFIRINOX followed by SBRT, To assess the disease-free-survival, overall survival, time to recurrence and site of recurrence in patients with borderline resectable pancreatic cancer receiving preoperative FOLFIRINOX followed by SBRT (RECIST), Participants will be followed from randomization up to 120 months or death (from any cause) whichever comes first.
Number of adverse events/toxicites reported during and following treatment of FOLFIRINOX and SBRT in patients with resectable pancreatic cancer, Number of toxicities participants reported by participants during and following treatment with FOLFIRINOX and SBRT in patients with resectable pancreatic cancer (NIH CTCAE v.4)., Participants will be followed from randomization up to 120 months or death (from any cause) whichever comes first.|Radiologic and pathological response associated with preoperative SBRT and FOLFIRINOX therapy, To determine the radiologic and pathological response associated with preoperative SBRT and FOLFIRINOX therapy (review of radiology and pathology reports)., Participants will be followed from randomization up to 120 months or death (from any cause) whichever comes first.|Quality of life through and after treatment, To assess quality of life through and after treatment using the FACT-Hep questionnaire, Participants will be followed from randomization up to 120 months or death (from any cause) whichever comes first.
The study investigators hypothesize that neoadjuvant FOLFIRINOX can be safely and efficaciously delivered using a sequential regimen with SBRT as an alternative to standard neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. Standard of care neoadjuvant treatment typically requires about six weeks of treatment with sub-systemic dosing of chemotherapy. The feasibility of the sequential delivery of the FOLFIRINOX followed by SBRT will be evaluated by capturing the prevalence of grade 3 toxicity and the treatment delay rate.

In our study, SBRT is planned sequentially to follow cycle 4 of chemotherapy treatment, provided toxicity has resolved to grade 2 or less. Thus, allowing for resolution of chemotherapy toxicity prior to initiation of radiation therapy. This interval and the fact that there is no concurrent delivery of chemo-RT, based on previously discussed experiences, including approaches where SBRT safely follows other intense chemotherapy regimens (see Polistina et al and Chuong \[35,36\]) makes this study feasible without establishing toxicity profile.

The proposed regimen of 4 cycles of FOLFIRINOX followed by 30 Gy/5 fractions using SBRT will be safely tolerated and will improve resectability rates in borderline resectable PDAC patients. In addition, this regimen will not compromise the ability to achieve a successful Whipple resection.

This regimen will improve the local control rate and overall disease free survival in this patient population. The investigators further hypothesize that early administration of FOLFIRNOX will provide optimal systemic therapy to control clinically occult micrometastases.