Auranofin in Treating Patients With Recurrent Epithelial Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies auranofin in treating patients with epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer. Immunosuppressive therapy, such as auranofin, may be an effective treatment for epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer.
Recurrent Fallopian Tube Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
DRUG: auranofin|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Feasibility of conducting a 10-patient pilot study in asymptomatic ovarian cancer patients using CA 125 elevation, To demonstrate the feasibility of conducting a 10-patient pilot study in asymptomatic ovarian cancer patients with CA 125 elevation. This study could potentially serve as a paradigm to investigate agents that might eventually be used as maintenance therapy in patients at high risk for recurrent disease., Up to 2 years
Immunohistochemical staining for PKCt expression in resected tumor samples with Auranofin, To explore whether immunohistochemical staining for PKCt expression in resected tumor samples appears to be associated with clinical outcomes with Auranofin., up to 2 years|Patients' perceptions of learning of CA 125 elevation, up to 2 years|Oral gold therapy influence on the CA 125 levels, To explore whether oral gold therapy either stabilizes or lowers the CA 125 level and maintains patients in an asymptomatic state and to provide descriptive data on tumor response and duration of response., 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate the feasibility of conducting a 10-patient pilot study in asymptomatic ovarian cancer patients with cancer antigen (CA 125) elevation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore whether oral gold therapy either stabilizes or lowers the CA 125 level and maintains patients in an asymptomatic state and to provide descriptive data on tumor response and duration of response.

II. To acquire qualitative data on patients' perceptions of learning of CA 125 elevation.

III. To explore whether immunohistochemical staining for PKC iota expression in resected tumor samples appears to be associated with clinical outcomes with auranofin.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive auranofin orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years.