Studying the Biology of IDH-mutant Gliomas Via Longitudinal Observation of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) Using MR Spectroscopy
Background:

Glioma is a type of brain cancer. Some of these tumors have gene mutations. These mutations can cause a substance called 2-HG to build up in the brain. This makes the tumors more aggressive. Researchers want to better understand 2-HG buildup in the brain. They hope this can help them design better ways to test for gliomas.

Objective:

To monitor the level of 2-HG in the brains of people with gliomas that have mutations in the IDH1 or IDH2 genes.

Eligibility:

People ages 18 and older with gliomas with mutations in the IDH1 or IDH2 genes

Design:

Participants will be screened with:

Medical and cancer history

Physical exam

Reviews of their symptoms and ability to perform normal activities

Blood and urine tests

MRI scan

Samples of their tumor from a past surgery

Documentation of their diagnosis and mutation status

Participants will have an initial evaluation. This will include repeats of screening tests. It will also include:

Neurological exam

MRS and MRI scans of the brain: Participants will lie on a table that slides into a metal cylinder. A coil or soft padding will be placed around their head. They will have a contrast agent injected into a vein. Pictures will be taken of the brain.

Participants will have follow-up visits every 2-6 month for the rest of their life. Visits will include scans.
Glioma|Gliomas|High Grade Glioma|Malignant Glioma|Low Grade Glioma
DRUG: HP 13C Pyruvate|DEVICE: 3T MRI scanner
To monitor the quantitative levels of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG) longitudinally in patients with IDH mutant gliomas via proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS), Changes in the level of 2-HG correlate with the occurrence of higher-grade transformation (HT) and/or development of hypermutator phenotype (HMP) in patients with IDH-mutant gliomas, 5 years
Determine the utility of 2-HG detection by 1H-MRS to predict higher-grade transformation (HT) and hypermutator phenotype (HMP) by correlating the 2-HG level with pathological diagnosis and tumor mutational load of the tumor tissue at time of rec..., Usefulness of 2-HG detection and its correlation with high grade transformation and HMP, at clinical disease recurrence
Background:

* Glioma is the most common malignant brain tumor. Genes coding for isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH), a metabolic enzyme, are frequently mutated in gliomas, particularly lower-grade gliomas (LGGs). IDH mutation causes a unique tumor biology, including the accumulation of 2-hydroxyglutarate (2-HG), an oncometabolite, which in turn causes genomic hypermethylation and tumorigenesis.
* Despite having a better prognosis compared to their IDH WT counterparts, IDH-mutant LGGs undergo a slow but unremitting higher-grade transformation (HT) and eventually become high grade gliomas (HGGs). A subset of patients with transformed HGGs develop a hypermutator phenotype (HMP), possibly related to previous treatment with alkylating agents. The timeline for the development of HT and HMP is unpredictable and there is no known way to prevent them from happening, largely due to a lack of understanding their biological mechanisms and lack of a non-invasive approach for potential early detection.
* Metabolic imaging, including proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and hyperpolarized (HP) 13C-Pyruvate MRSI, can safely detect the in vivo metabolic changes in humans.
* This clinical study will allow a longitudinal monitoring of participants with IDH-mutant gliomas for detection of disease progression, which is associated with metabolic alterations, provide an unprecedented opportunity for biopsy of the tumor for diagnostic confirmation and interrogation of the mechanisms of HT and HMP, and potentially providing a specific treatment approach for HMP which has been refractory to conventional brain tumor treatments.

Objective:

To detect and monitor the quantitative levels of 2-HG and lactate/pyruvate ratio longitudinally in participants with IDH-mutant gliomas via proton MRS and HP 13C pyruvate MRSI, respectively

Eligibility:

* Participant has glioma harboring IDH1 or IDH2 mutation confirmed by DNA sequencing.
* Age \>=18 years, KPS \>= 70%

Design:

* This is a prospective observational study. We will recruit up to 270 eligible participants in the next 5 years.
* The relationship between the occurrence of HT and the changes in 2-HG level and the ratio of lactate/pyruvate will be evaluated using the proportional hazard model with the latter as the time-dependent covariates.