Phase II Trial of Combination Immunotherapy With NeuVax and Trastuzumab in High-risk HER2+ Breast Cancer Patients
This will be a multi-center, prospective, randomized, single-blinded, placebo-controlled phase II trial of trastuzumab + nelipepimut-S/GM-CSF versus trastuzumab + GM-CSF alone. Our target study population is high-risk HER2-positive breast cancer patients. High-risk HER2-positive breast cancer patients are defined as:

Those with HER2-positive breast cancer, regardless of hormone receptor status, who receive neoadjuvant therapy with an approved regimen that includes trastuzumab and at least four cycles (12 weeks) of taxane-containing chemotherapy, and fail to achieve a pCR.

Those with HER2-positive breast cancer, regardless of hormone receptor status, who undergo surgery as a first intervention and are found to have ≥ 4 positive lymph nodes.

Those with HER2-positive, hormone receptor negative breast cancer who undergo surgery as a first intervention and are found to have 1-3 positive lymph nodes.

Disease-free subjects after standard of care multi-modality therapy will be screened and HLA-typed.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: NeuVax vaccine|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: GM-CSF
Invasive Disease-free Survival (DFS), Compare invasive DFS between the two treatment groups from time of initiation of trastuzumab maintenance therapy (trasuzumab monotherapy) to time of invasive local, regional or distant recurrence, new primary, or death due to any cause. Disease state will be determined by the patients' own physicians at the individual study sites during their routine follow-up screening. This will occur for all enrolled patients, regardless of randomization, approximately every three months for the first 24 months after completion of primary therapies and every six months thereafter with clinical exam, and laboratory and radiographic surveillance. The primary outcome measure of the trial is invasive DFS., Initiation of trastuzumab monotherapy through the end of the patient's fifth year of participation in the study.
Local and Systemic Toxicities, Standard local and systemic toxicities will be collected and graded per the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 graded toxicity scale. For both the inoculations during the primary vaccine/inoculation series and the booster inoculations, patients will be monitored closely for one hour after inoculation with questioning, serial exams and vital signs every 15 minutes to observe for a hypersensitivity reaction. Additionally, patients will return to their study site 48-72 hours after inoculation for questioning regarding any systemic toxicity and local injection site reactions. When they return to their study site, the local reaction at the inoculation sites will be examined and measured., From the date of initiation of the vaccine or inoculation series and booster series up to 36 months.|Evaluate in Vivo and in Vitro Immune Responses, Immune responses will be primarily documented using the delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) reaction and using the dextramer assay to enumerate peptide-specific CTL. Each of these measurements will be performed regardless of randomization. DTH reactions will be measured prior to initiation of the primary vaccine/inoculation series, one month ± 1 week after completion of the primary vaccine/inoculation series, and one month ± 1 week after the final booster inoculation. Dextramer measurements will be performed prior to initiating the primary vaccine/inoculation series as well as one month ± 1 week after completion of the vaccine/inoculation series. Additionally, these assays may be performed pre- and post-each booster. Alternatively, these assayed time points may also be performed all at once on frozen and banked cells., From the date of the first inoculation of Trastuzumab monotherapy to the end of the patient's fifth year of participation in the study.
In this study, the investigators intend to assess the ability of the combination of trastuzumab and the HER2 vaccine nelipepimut-S (administered with the immunoadjuvant GM-CSF) given in the adjuvant setting to prevent recurrences in patients with high-risk HER2-positive breast cancer. High-risk is defined as those patients that do not achieve a pCR after neoadjuvant therapy with an approved regimen that includes trastuzumab and at least four cycles (12 weeks) of taxane-containing chemotherapy or those who undergo upfront surgery and are found to have greater than or equal to four positive lymph nodes regardless of hormone receptor status or 1-3 positive lymph nodes and are hormone receptor negative.

Following surgery, patients will be screened and HLA-typed (consent #1). Nelipepimut-S is a CD8-eliciting peptide vaccine that is restricted to HLA-2+ or HLA-A3+ or HLA-A24+ or HLA-A26+ patients (approximately 80% of the US population). HLA-A2+/A3+/A24+/orA26+ patients who meet all other eligibility criteria will be randomized to receive trastuzumab + nelipepimut-S/GM-CSF or trastuzumab + GM-CSF alone (consent #2). The trastuzumab will be administered to all patients consistent with current standard of care. Patients randomized to the nelipepimut-S/GM-CSF arm will receive vaccinations of nelipepimut-S (1000 mcg) and GM-CSF (250 mcg) administered intradermally every three weeks for six total vaccinations, 30-120 minutes after completion of trastuzumab infusion. The first vaccination will be given with the third dose of maintenance trastuzumab administered as monotherapy optimally, but may be given with later maintenance doses of trastuzumab, provided there are at least six remaining doses of trastuzumab to overlap with the primary vaccine series. Patients randomized to the GM-CSF alone arm will receive inoculations of GM-CSF (250 mcg) administered in an identical manner to those receiving nelipepimut-S/GM-CSF. Patients will be blinded as to whether they are receiving nelipepimut-S/GM-CSF or GM-CSF alone.

Upon completion of the primary vaccination/inoculation series, booster inoculations (same dose and route) will be administered every six months x 4. The first booster inoculation will occur 6 months ± 2 weeks after the completion of the PVS, with subsequent boosters timed every six months + 2 weeks. Boosters will therefore occur at the following time points after completion of the PVS: 6 months ± 2 weeks, 12 months ± 2 weeks, 18 months ± 2 weeks, 24 months ± 2 weeks. Booster inoculations will occur for patients randomized to receive nelipepimut-S/GM-CSF as well as patients randomized to receive GM-CSF alone, and will consist of the same treatment drugs and dosing (i.e., nelipepimut-S/GM-CSF patients will be boosted with nelipepimut-S/GM-CSF while GM-CSF alone patients will be boosted with GM-CSF alone). Patient blinding will be maintained throughout the study.

Subjects will be followed for safety issues, immunologic response and clinical recurrence. Patients will be monitored 48-72 hours after each inoculation for reaction to the inoculation as well as documentation of any adverse effects experienced. Immunologic response will be monitored primarily by in vivo delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) reactions but also may be documented by other immunologic assays. All patients will be followed for a total of 36 months from the time of initiation of trastuzumab maintenance therapy to document disease-free status.