Epcoritamab in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Marginal Zone Lymphoma (MZL)
The purpose of this study is to assess if an investigational treatment of Epcoritamab will be beneficial for patients with Marginal Zone Lymphoma (MZL).
Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Epcoritamab
Complete Response (CR), The proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of complete response (CR) after Cycle 12 of study therapy will be reported. Response will be assessed using modified Cheson criteria, if disease is not fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-avid in initial Screening; or by revised Lugano criteria if Screening FDG-positron emission tomography (PET)/ computed tomography (CT) demonstrated FDG avid disease. For Lugano criteria, CR will be defined by a Deauville score of ≤3., 12 months
Complete Response (CR), The proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of complete response (CR) after Cycle 3 and Cycle 7 of study therapy will be reported. Response will be assessed using modified Cheson criteria, if disease is not fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-avid in initial Screening; or by revised Lugano criteria if Screening FDG-positron emission tomography (PET)/ computed tomography (CT) demonstrated FDG avid disease. For Lugano criteria, CR will be defined by a Deauville score of ≤3., Up to 7 months|Partial Response (PR), The proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of partial response (PR) after Cycle 12 of study therapy will be reported. Response will be assessed using modified Cheson criteria or revised Lugano criteria (based on FDG avidity), among evaluable participants., Up to 12 months|Complete Response, The proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of complete response (CR) at 24 months after initiation of treatment will be reported. Response will be assessed using modified Cheson criteria or revised Lugano criteria (based on FDG avidity), among evaluable participants., 24 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), The proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) after Cycles 3, Cycle 7, and Cycle 12 of study therapy will be reported. Response will be assessed per Cheson or revised Lugano criteria (based on FDG avidity) modified for marginal zone lymphoma (MZL), among evaluable participants., Up to 12 months|Time to Response (TTR), The time to response (TTR) to treatment among participants will be reported. TTR is the time in months from Cycle 1 Day 1 to achievement of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) after initiation of treatment., Up to 12 months|Duration of Response (DOR), The duration of response (DOR) to treatment among participants will be reported. DOR is the time in months from achievement of complete (CR) or partial response (PR) to progression, relapse, or death. For event-free participants, follow-up will be censored at the last date of documented still on PR or CR., Up to 36 months|Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Related Adverse Events, The number of participants experiencing treatment-related adverse events/toxicity will be reported. Adverse events (AEs), including serious adverse events, will be assessed using the using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Adverse events (AEs) will be assessed during treatment and 30 (±7) days after the last dose of the trial intervention., Up to 13 months|Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Related Serious Adverse Events will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 13 months|Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Related Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) Adverse Events, The number of participants experiencing treatment-related Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) adverse events will be reported. CRS-related adverse events will be assessed using American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) Consensus Grading Criteria., Up to 13 months|Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Related Clinical Tumor Lysis Syndrome (CTLS) Adverse Events, The number of participants experiencing treatment-related clinical tumor lysis syndrome (CTLS) adverse events will be reported. CTLS-related adverse events will be assessed using Cairo-Bishop criteria., Up to 13 months|Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Related Immune effector Cell-associated Neurotoxicity Syndrome (ICANS) Adverse Events, The number of participants experiencing treatment-related immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) adverse events will be reported. ICANS-related adverse events will be assessed using Lee et al., 2019 criteria., Up to 13 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression- Free Survival (PFS) among participants will be reported. PFS is defined as the elapsed time in months from start of treatment to documented progressive disease or death from any cause. For participants alive and progression-free, follow-up will be censored at the last date of documented progression-free status., Up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) among participants will be reported. OS is defined as the elapsed time in months from start of treatment to death from any cause. Alive participants will be censored at last date known to be alive., Up to 36 months
The purpose of this study is to assess if an investigational treatment of Epcoritamab will be beneficial for patients with Marginal Zone Lymphoma (MZL).