Phase IIb Study Evaluating Immunogenic Chemotherapy Combined with Ipilimumab and Nivolumab in Breast Cancer
Breast cancer is rarely curable after metastasis, and the therapeutic options are limited. Interestingly, the host immune response is strongly predictive for the effect of chemotherapy in subgroups of patients with breast cancer. The aim is to release the brake on the immune response by use of ipilimumab, which blocks CTLA-4 and may deplete regulatory T cells, combined with nivolumab (anti PD1). Importantly, it is possible that non-responders to nivolumab/ipilimumab (nivo/ipi) can be turned responders by use of immunogenic chemotherapy.
Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Positive Tumor|Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Toxicity: CTCAE v4.0, Assessment of toxicity of combined treatment with ipilimumab, nivolumab, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (ipi/nivo/chemo), 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo/chemo group compared to chemo only group: Progression-free survival (PFS); compare the PFS rates when 95% of patients in the control croup have PD, We expect to reach the data-driven time point for PFS-analysis (95% PFS in the control group) approximately 3 years after the study opens. If this is not met within 24 months after inclusion of the last patient, the PFS-analysis will be performed at this
Duration of Response (DR), Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo/chemo group compared to chemo only group: duration of response (DR), 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo/chemo group compared to chemo only group: overall survival (OS), 5 years|Duration of Response (DR) in cross-over arm, Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo group: duration of response (DR), 3 years|Overall Suvival (OS) in cross-over arm, Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo group: overall survival (OS), 5 years|Toxicity, cross-over arm, CTCAE v4.0, Assessment of toxicity of ipi/nivo (without chemotherapy) in cross-over arm, 3 years|Objective tumor Response Rate (ORR), Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo/chemo group compared to chemo only group: Objective tumor response rate (ORR), 3 years|Durable tumor Response Rate (DRR), Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo/chemo group compared to chemo only group: durable tumor response rate (DRR; \>6 months), 3 years|Objective tumor Response Rate (ORR) in cross-over arm, Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo group: Objective tumor response rate (ORR), 3 years|Durable tumor Response Rate (DRR) in cross-over arm, Assessment of clinical response in ipi/nivo group: durable tumor response rate (DRR; \>6 months), 3 years|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Proportion of patients with an objective tumor response or with stable disease lasting at least 6 months, 3 years|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) in cross-over arm, Proportion of patients with an objective tumor response or with stable disease lasting at least 6 months, 3 years|PD-L1 expression, Assessment of PD-L1 expression, mutation load and immune gene expression as biomarkers for clinical response, 3 years|Chalder Fatigue Questionnaire (FQ), Assessment of patient reported outcomes, as measured by the Chalder Fatigue Questionnaire (FQ), 3 years|Pain intensity, Assessment of patient reported outcomes, as measured by an 11 point Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) for pain intensity, 3 years|EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL, Assessment of patient reported outcomes, as measured by the EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL, 3 years|Biological response in molecular subtypes of breast cancer, Comparison of clinical and biological response in molecular subtypes of breast cancer, 3 years
Immunological response, Assessment of immunological response. In selected patients, the specificity of T-cell responses will be analysed. The analysis will be based neoantigen prediction and will be performed by multimer technology., 3 years|Biomarkers for clinical response, Identification of biomarkers for clinical response by use of gene profiling, pathology, cytokine assays and other analysis on material from study patients. The following predefined biomarkers will be compared between responders and non-responders: PD-L1 in biopsies, immune gene signature in biopsies. Further explorative investigations will be performed to identify new candidate biomarker signatures., 3 years|Biomarkers for toxicity, Identification of biomarkers for toxicity by use of gene profiling, pathology, cytokine assays and other analysis on material from study patients. The analysis is explorative and will be performed to identify new candidate biomarker signatures. The candidate signatures will be compared between patients with and without immune related adverse events., 3 years|Assessment of changes in the immunological milieu in tumor and peripheral blood, Considering each study arm separately, and by comparing arm A to arm B. The assessment will be performed by flow cytometry and CyTOF of immune cells, and by gene expression profiling of tumor biopsies. In periferal blood,the frequency of immune cell subsets will be determined and compared between baseline and later timepoints. In biopsies, gene expression profiles will be compared between baseline and later timepoints., 3 years
There is compelling evidence from animal studies, supported by data from humans, that some chemotherapeutic agents are immunogenic. Doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide have been shown to be particularly powerful inducers of immunogenic cell death. Both agents fulfil 5/5 criteria established for assessing the immunogenicity of different chemotherapeutic drugs. There is also strong evidence from humans, particularly in breast cancer, indicating that the clinical effect of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide depends on the host immune response. Further, these agents have been shown to induce a Type I interferon immune response in breast cancer. Taken together, there is a strong rationale for synergy between doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide and PD-1/CTLA-4 blockade. The trial combines nivolumab and ipilimumab with established 1st choice chemotherapy in patients with metastatic hormone reseptor positive breast cancer. Nivolumab/ipilimumab (nivo/ipi) may i) potentiate the patient´s spontaneous anti-tumor immune response ii) synergize with chemotherapeutic agents that induce immunological cell death