PET/CT Vs Bone Marrow Biopsy in Exclusion of Bone Marrow Infiltration for Initial Staging of Lymphoma
lymphoma is a common malignancy in the developed world. the two main categories of lymphoma are non-Hodgkin lymphoma and non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Bone marrow biopsy (BMB) is the most direct method of detecting lymphoma infiltration, however it is an invasive procedure. 18 fluro-2deoxy-D glucose PET/CT is a non-invasive examination that can comperhensively evaluate the state of bone marrow (BM) with extremely high sensitivity in detecting bone marrow infiltration of lymphoma.
Lymphoma
DEVICE: positron emission tomography for exclusion of bone marrow infiltration in lymphoma
Comparison between PET/CT and BMB in detection of bone marrow involvement, Compare the diagnostic accuracy of PET/CT scan against Bone Marrow Biopsy in detection of bone marrow involvement for staging of lymphoma., 30 days between initial bone marrow biopsy and initial PET/CT before starting treatment for lymphoma
Lymphoma is a common malignancy in the developed world. Many subtypes of lymphomas are known. The two main categories of lymphoma are the non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) (90% of cases) and Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) (10%). Lymphoma makes up 3-4% of all cancers, making them as a group the seventh-most common form.

Bone marrow biopsy is the most direct method of detecting lymphoma infiltration, however, it is an invasive procedure which is accompanied by several complications such as pain, hemorrhage and may miss marrow involvement if infiltration is patchy, or not taken from a part of the marrow that is involved.

18fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) is a non-invasive examination that can comprehensively evaluate the state of bone marrow with extremely high sensitivity in detecting bone marrow infiltration of lymphoma and can replace bone marrow biopsy.

At this moment, there is no clear international guideline between the indications of PET-CT and bone marrow biopsy, but there is interest in using the PET/CT findings to either supplement or even replace the BMB in the evaluation of BM involvement in lymphoma.