Cytotoxic T Lymphocytes in Treating Patients With Malignancies With BK and/or JC Virus
This phase II trial studies how well donor cytotoxic T lymphocytes work in treating patients with malignancies with BK and/or JC virus. Cytotoxic T lymphocytes are made from donated blood cells that are grown in the laboratory and are designed to kill viruses that can cause infections in transplant patients and may be an effective treatment in patients with malignancies with BK and/or JC virus.
Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome|BK Virus Infection|Human Immunodeficiency Virus|JC Virus Infection|Malignant Neoplasm|Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Merkel Cell Polyomavirus Infection|Viral Encephalitis
BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic BK-specific Cytotoxic T-lymphocytes|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Response, defined as response (R) = (best response [R1] or second best response [R2]), The method of Thall et al will be used to monitor the probabilities of response., Up to 56 days|Incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), The method of Thall et al will be used to monitor the probabilities of grade 3 or 4 GVHD., Within 28 days of the last dose of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs)|Incidence of adverse events, Will be continuously monitored., Up to day 100
Overall survival, Each outcome will be evaluated by tabulation and by fitting a Bayesian statistical regression model for binary outcomes as a function of covar. Unadjusted event time distributions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 12 months|Glomerular filtration rate, Each outcome will be evaluated by tabulation and by fitting a Bayesian statistical regression model for binary outcomes as a function of covar. Unadjusted event time distributions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the efficacy, feasibility and safety of administering most closely human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched BK specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) lines (BK-CTLs) generated by ex vivo expansion to mediate antiviral activity in patients with any type of malignancies, and/or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDs), and/or history of solid organ transplant with BK and JC infections.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the persistence of the administered BK-CTLs generated by ex vivo expansion in patients with any type of malignancies, and/or HIV/AIDs, and/or history of solid organ transplant with BK and JC infections.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive allogeneic BK-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes. Patients achieving partial response, stable disease, or progressive disease are eligible for 7 additional infusions of CTL occurring at least 2 weeks after the previous CTL infusion if they meet the eligibility criteria for subsequent therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 12 months.