Engaging and Activating Cancer Survivors in Genetic Services Study
To address the gap in access to genetic services, this study will evaluate the effectiveness of an adapted model of remote delivery of genetic services to increase the uptake of recommended genetic assessment and testing in childhood cancer survivors.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Remote Telegenetic Counseling by Phone|BEHAVIORAL: Remote Telegenetic Counseling by Videoconferencing|BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care Arm
Number of participants who received testing or genetic counseling, Primary composite outcome collected via remote services records-Yes/No (ARMS A/B), 6 Months status survey (ARM C)|Genetic Knowledge Scale, Change in knowledge (ARMS A/B only). Increased change score indicates increase in knowledge (better)., Baseline - Within 7 Days After Result Disclosure|Impact of Events Scale (IES), Change in Cancer Specific Distress (ARMS A/B only). Score Range = 0-40. Decreased score change indicates a decrease in distress (better)., Baseline - Within 7 Days After Result Disclosure|Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS), Change in Depression (ARMS A/B only). Score Range = 4-20. Decreased score change indicates a decrease in depression (better)., Baseline - Within 7 Days After Result Disclosure
Uptake of genetic counseling, testing, and identification of genetic carriers, Collected via remote services records (ARMS A/B), 6 month status survey (ARM C)|Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information Systems (PROMIS), Change in Anxiety (ARMS A/B only). Score Range = 4-20. Decreased score change indicates a decrease in anxiety (better)., Baseline - Within 7 Days After Result Disclosure|Multi-dimensional Impact of Cancer Risk Assessment Questionnaire (MICRA), Change in Uncertainty (ARMS A/B only). Score Range = 0-85. Decreased score change indicates a decrease in uncertainty (better)., Baseline - Within 7 Days After Result Disclosure|Change in Health Behaviors (Selected from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System Questionnaire and the Health and Diet survey Dietary Guidelines Supplement), Change in performance of risk reductive and screening behaviors and communication of results - Yes/No responses (ARMS A/B only)., Baseline - 6 Months After Result Disclosure
As childhood cancer survivors receive care locally from PCPs, the in-home, collaborative PCP model is designed to increase access to genetic services and uptake of genetic testing in childhood cancer survivors. In this model, individual survivors can access remote telegenetic services and genetic counselors will partner with PCPs to order genetic testing.

This study comprises of a 3-arm randomized Hybrid 1 Effectiveness and Implementation study in 360 CCSS survivors to evaluate the effectiveness of our in-home, collaborative PCP model of remote telegenetic services to increase uptake of cancer genetic testing in childhood cancer survivors compared to usual care options for genetic testing.

Aims are as follows:

To evaluate the effectiveness of our in-home, collaborative PCP model of remote telegenetic services to increase uptake of genetic testing at 6 months as compared to usual care among childhood cancer survivors who meet criteria for cancer genetic testing. Our primary outcome will be a composite variable indicating whether a person had pre-test counseling or genetic testing.

To evaluate the effectiveness of remote videoconferencing to provide greater increase in knowledge and decrease in distress and depression as compared to remote phone services, to examine the moderators of patient outcomes with remote telegenetic services, and to estimate intervention costs and incremental cost-effectiveness of the three study arms.

To conduct a multi-stakeholder, mixed-methods process evaluation to understand patient, provider and system factors associated with uptake of counseling and testing in our adapted in-home, collaborative PCP model and facilitators and barriers to uptake to provide recommendations for future implementation.