Safety, Clinical Activity, Pharmacokinetics (PK) and Pharmacodynamics Study of GSK2879552, Alone or With Azacitidine, in Subjects With High Risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS)
This is a Phase I/II, open-label, 2 arm study to evaluate the safety and clinical activity of GSK2879552 alone, or in combination with azacitidine in subjects with MDS. The study consisted of 2 parts. The objective of Part 1 is to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of GSK2879552 administered alone and in combination with azacitidine in adult subjects with high risk MDS previously treated with HMA. The objective of Part 2 is to evaluate clinical activity after treatment with GSK2879552, alone or in combination with azacitidine, in adult subjects with high risk MDS previously treated with HMA.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: GSK2879552|DRUG: Azacitidine
Part 1: Number of Participants With Any Non-serious Adverse Event (Non-SAE), Serious AE (SAE), Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT), Dose Reductions or Delays and Withdrawals Due to Toxicities, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. Any untoward event resulting in death, life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect, any other situation according to medical or scientific judgment that may not be immediately life-threatening or result in death or hospitalization but may jeopardize the participant or may require medical or surgical intervention or event associated with liver injury and impaired liver function were categorized as SAE. An event was considered a DLT if it occurred within the first 28 days of treatment, and met the DLT criteria unless it could be clearly established that the event was unrelated to treatment., Up to 2 years|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Platelets, Neutrophils, Monocytes, Lymphocytes, Leucocyte, Eosinophils and Basophils at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including platelets, neutrophils, monocytes, lymphocytes, leucocyte, eosinophils and basophils. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Mean Corpuscular Volume (MCV) at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including MCV. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin (MCH) at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including MCH. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Mean Corpuscular Hemoglobin Concentration (MCHC) and Hemoglobin (Hb) at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including MCHC and Hb. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Hematocrit at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including Hematocrit. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Erythrocytes at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including erythrocytes. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Percent Reticulocytes at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including percent reticulocytes. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Blast/Leukocytes at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including blast/leukocytes. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycle 1 (Cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT), Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP), Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST), Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) and Gamma Glutamyl Transferase (GGT) at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including ALT, ALP, AST, LDH and GGT. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Calcium, Chloride, Glucose, Potassium, Sodium, Phosphate and Urea Nitrogen at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including calcium, chloride, glucose, potassium, sodium, phosphate and urea nitrogen. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Albumin and Protein at Indicated Time Points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including Albumin and Protein. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Partial Pressure Carbon Dioxide (pCO2) at Indicated Time Points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including pCO2. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Day 1 of Cycle 1 (cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) and Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) at Indicated Time-points, Vital signs including SBP and DBP were measured after resting for at least 5 minutes in a semi-supine position. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1 (Days 7, 15), Cycle 2 (Day 1), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Heart Rate at Indicated Time-points, Vital signs including heart rate was measured after resting for at least 5 minutes in a semi-supine position. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1 (Days 7, 15), Cycle 2 (Day 1), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Respiratory Rate at Indicated Time-points, Vital signs including respiratory rate was measured after resting for at least 5 minutes in a semi-supine position. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1 (Days 7, 15), Cycle 2 (Day 1), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Body Temperature at Indicated Time-points, Vital signs including body temperature was measured after resting for at least 5 minutes in a semi-supine position. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1 (Days 7, 15), Cycle 2 (Day 1), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Electrocardiogram (ECG) Mean Heart Rate at Indicated Time-points, Single 12-lead ECG was obtained at designated time points during the study using an ECG machine that automatically calculates the heart rate and measures PR, QRS, QT, and corrected QT (QTc) intervals. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1 (Days 1, 7), Cycle 2 (Day 1), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in ECG PR Interval, QRS Duration, QT Interval, QTc Corrected by Bazett's Formula (QTcB) and QTc Corrected by Fridericia's Formula (QTcF) at Indicated Time-points, Single 12-lead ECG was obtained at designated time points during the study using an ECG machine that automatically calculates the heart rate and measures PR, QRS, QT, and QTc intervals. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1 (Days 1,7), Cycle 2 (Day 1), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Number of Participants With Abnormal Findings During Physical Examination, A complete physical examination included, at a minimum, assessment of the Cardiovascular, Respiratory, Gastrointestinal and Neurological systems. A brief physical examination included, at a minimum assessments of the skin, lungs, cardiovascular system, and abdomen (liver and spleen). This analysis was planned but data was not captured in the database. Abnormal changes were captured as adverse events if they were clinically significant., Up to 2 years|Part 2: Percentage of Participants With Investigator-assessed Best Response Assessed by Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving a confirmed Complete Remission (CR) or Partial Remission (PR) or Marrow Complete Remission (mCR) or confirmed Hematologic Improvement (HI) or Stable Disease (SD) prior to new anti-cancer therapy and crossover on the All Treated Subjects Population. Participants with Not Evaluable or missing response were to be treated as non-responders. International Working Group (IWG) criteria, 2006 was to be used to evaluate response., Up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Percentage of Participants With Investigator-assessed Best Response Assessed by Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved CR or PR or mCR or HI prior to new anti-cancer therapy on the All Treated Subjects Population. Participants with Not Evaluable or missing response were to be treated as non-responders. IWG criteria, 2006 was to be used to evaluate response., Up to 2.5 years|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Total Bilirubin, Direct Bilirubin, Creatinine and Urate at Indicated Time Points, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including Total Bilirubin, Direct Bilirubin, Creatinine and urate. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and Cycle 1(Days 1, 7, 15, 22), Cycle 2 (Days 1, 7, 15 ,22), Cycle 3 (Day 1), Cycle 4 (Day 1), Cycle 5 (Day 1) (each cycle of 28 days)
Part 1: Percentage of Participants With Investigator-assessed Best Response Assessed by Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical Benefit Rate was defined as the percentage of participants achieving a confirmed Complete Remission (CR) or Partial Remission (PR) or Marrow Complete Remission (mCR) or confirmed Hematologic Improvement (HI) or Stable Disease (SD) prior to new anti-cancer therapy and crossover on the All Treated Subjects Population. Participants with Not Evaluable or missing response were treated as non-responders. International Working Group (IWG) criteria, 2006 was used to evaluate response., Up to 2 years|Part 1: Percentage of Participants With Investigator-assessed Best Response Assessed by Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved Complete Remission (CR) or Partial Remission (PR) or Marrow Complete Remission (mCR) or confirmed Hematologic Improvement (HI) prior to new anti-cancer therapy on the All Treated Subjects Population. Participants with Not Evaluable or missing response were treated as non-responders. International Working Group (IWG) criteria, 2006 was used to evaluate response., Up to 2 years|Part 1: Plasma Concentration of GSK2879552, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points to evaluate concentration of GSK2879552. Each Pharmacokinetic (PK) sample was collected as close as possible to the planned time relative to the dose (i.e., time zero) administered to the participant on PK days. PK Concentration Population consisted of all participants in the All Treated Subject Population for whom a blood sample for pharmacokinetics was obtained and analyzed., Cycle 1, Day 1: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 3 hour; pre-dose on Days 2,4; Day 7: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 3 hour; Day 15: pre-dose, 0.5-1 hour post-dose; pre-dose on Day 22; Cycle 2: pre-dose on Days 1, 7, 15, 22; Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycles 3,4,5 (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Plasma Concentration of Azacitidine, Blood samples were to be collected at indicated time points to evaluate concentration of Azacitidine., Cycle 1, Day 1: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 3 hour; pre-dose on Days 2,4; Day 7: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 3 hour; Day 15: pre-dose, 0.5-1 hour post-dose; pre-dose on Day 22; Cycle 2: pre-dose on Days 1, 7, 15, 22; Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycles 3,4,5 (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 1: Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the subset of participants (responders) who show a response (CR, mCR, PR, or HI), the time from first documented evidence of response until the first documented sign of disease progression or death. If no disease progression or death, the DOR was to be censored at last disease assessment., Up to 2 years|Part 1: Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from first treatment dose until the first documented sign of disease progression or death. If the participant missed more than one visit prior to the date of documented events, PFS was censored at the last adequate assessment prior to missing. Otherwise, if the participant did not have a documented date of events, PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate assessment., Up to 2 years|Part 1: Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from first treatment dose until death due to any reason. For the analysis of overall survival (OS), the last date of known contact was used for those participants who had not died at the time of analysis; such participants were considered censored., Up to 2 years|Part 1: Proportion of Participants With Disease Progression to Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia (AML), The proportion of participants with disease progression to AML is defined as the percentage of participants experiencing AML on the All Treated Subjects Population., Up to 2 years|Part 1: Time to AML Progression, Time to AML progression is defined as the time from first treatment dose until AML progression or crossover if using the All Treated Subjects Population. For the analysis of time to AML, if the participant did not experience AML, time to AML was censored at the last treatment prior to the initiation of anti-cancer therapy or crossover., Up to 2 years|Part 1: Number of Participants With Documented Platelet and Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusions Per Month, Number of participants with documented platelet and RBC transfusions have been presented., Up to 2 years|Part 2: Number of Participants With Any AEs and SAEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. Any untoward event resulting in death, life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect, any other situation according to medical or scientific judgment that may not be immediately life-threatening or result in death or hospitalization but may jeopardize the participant or may require medical or surgical intervention or event associated with liver injury and impaired liver function were categorized as SAE., Up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Platelets, Neutrophils, Monocytes, Lymphocytes, Leucocyte, Eosinophils and Basophils at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including platelets, neutrophils, monocytes, lymphocytes, leucocyte, eosinophils and basophils. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in MCV at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including MCV. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in MCH at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including MCH. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in MCHC and Hb at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including MCHC and Hb. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Hematocrit at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including Hematocrit. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Erythrocytes at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including erythrocytes. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Percent Reticulocytes at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including percent reticulocytes. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Blast/Leukocytes at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of hematology parameters including blast/leukocytes. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in ALT, ALP, AST, LDH and GGT at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including ALT, ALP, AST, LDH and GGT. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Calcium, Chloride, Glucose, Potassium, Sodium, Phosphate and Urea Nitrogen at Indicated Time-points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including Calcium, chloride, glucose, potassium, sodium, phosphate and urea nitrogen. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Total Bilirubin, Direct Bilirubin, Creatinine and Urate at Indicated Time Points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including Total Bilirubin, Direct Bilirubin, Creatinine and urate. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Albumin and Protein at Indicated Time Points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including Albumin and Protein. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in pCO2 at Indicated Time Points, Blood samples were to be collected from participants for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters including pCO2. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in SBP and DBP at Indicated Time-points, Vital signs including SBP and DBP were to be measured after resting for at least 5 minutes in a semi-supine position. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Heart Rate at Indicated Time-points, Vital signs including heart rate was to be measured after resting for at least 5 minutes in a semi-supine position. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Respiratory Rate at Indicated Time-points, Vital signs including respiratory rate was to be measured after resting for at least 5 minutes in a semi-supine position. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in Body Temperature at Indicated Time-points, Vital signs including body temperature was to be measured after resting for at least 5 minutes in a semi-supine position. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in ECG Mean Heart Rate at Indicated Time-points, Single 12-lead ECG was to be obtained at designated time points during the study using an ECG machine that automatically calculates the heart rate and measures PR, QRS, QT, and QTc intervals. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Change From Baseline in ECG PR Interval, QRS Duration, QT Interval, QTcB and QTcF at Indicated Time-points, Single 12-lead ECG was to be obtained at designated time points during the study using an ECG machine that automatically calculates the heart rate and measures PR, QRS, QT, and QTc intervals. Baseline was defined as the value obtained prior to first dosing (Day 1). Change from Baseline was to be calculated by subtracting post-dose value from Baseline value., Baseline and up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Number of Participants With Abnormal Findings During Physical Examination, A complete physical examination included, at a minimum, assessment of the Cardiovascular, Respiratory, Gastrointestinal and Neurological systems. A brief physical examination included, at a minimum assessments of the skin, lungs, cardiovascular system, and abdomen (liver and spleen)., Up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Plasma Clearance (CL/F) of GSK2879552, Blood samples were to be collected at indicated time points to evaluate CL/F of GSK2879552. Each PK sample was to be collected as close as possible to the planned time relative to the dose (i.e., time zero) administered to the participant on PK days., Cycle 1, Day 1: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 3 hour; pre-dose on Day 4; Day 7: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 3 hour; Day 15: pre-dose, 0.5-1 hour post-dose; pre-dose on Day 22; Cycle 2: pre-dose on Days 1, 7, 15, 22; Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycles 3 to 1 (each cycle of 28 days)|Part 2: Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the time from first documented evidence of response until the first documented sign of disease progression or death. If no disease progression or death, the duration of response was to be censored at last disease assessment., Up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from first treatment dose until the first documented sign of disease progression or death. If the participant missed more than one visit prior to the date of documented events, PFS was to be censored at the last adequate assessment prior to missing. Otherwise, if the participant did not have a documented date of events, PFS was to be censored at the date of the last adequate assessment., Up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from first treatment dose until death due to any reason. For the analysis of overall survival, the last date of known contact was to be used for those participants who had not died at the time of analysis; such participants were to be considered censored., Up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Percentage of Participants With Disease Progression to AML, The percentage of participants experiencing AML on the All Treated Subjects Population was to be presented., Up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Time to AML Progression, Time to AML progression is defined as the time from first treatment dose until AML progression or crossover if using the All Treated Subjects Population. For the analysis of time to AML, if the participant did not experience AML, time to AML was to be censored at the last treatment prior to the initiation of anti-cancer therapy or crossover., Up to 2.5 years|Part 2: Number of Participants With Documented Platelet and Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusions Per Month, Number of participants with documented platelet and RBC transfusions were to be presented., Up to 2.5 years
This is a Phase I/II, open-label, 2 arm study to evaluate the safety and clinical activity of GSK2879552 alone, or in combination with azacitidine in subjects with MDS. The study consisted of 2 parts. The objective of Part 1 is to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of GSK2879552 administered alone and in combination with azacitidine in adult subjects with high risk MDS previously treated with HMA. The objective of Part 2 is to evaluate clinical activity after treatment with GSK2879552, alone or in combination with azacitidine, in adult subjects with high risk MDS previously treated with HMA.