A Low-Insulinemic Dietary Intervention to Reduce Breast Cancer Risk in High-Risk Women
This clinical trial tests whether a new dietary pattern that consists of foods that lower the blood insulin response can reduce breast cancer risk in high-risk women. In a large group of patients, this new dietary pattern was associated with reduced risk of multiple cancers and reduced risk of long-term weight gain. Parts of this new dietary pattern are quite different from typical dietary recommendations, and much education is needed. Overall, compared to the typical American diet, this new dietary pattern is moderately low in total fat and saturated fat, low in protein from animal foods but high in protein from plant sources, high in fruits and vegetables, high in whole grains, and high in dietary fiber. We will determine if a low-insulinemic dietary pattern intervention is feasible and effective in reducing breast cancer risk in high-risk women.
Feasibility Pilot Study|Compliance
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Dietary Intervention|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|BEHAVIORAL: Motivational Interviewing|OTHER: Nutritional Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Successful translation of the low-Empirical Dietary Index for Hyperinsulinemia dietary pattern, High compliance will be defined as \> 80% of participants achieving and maintaining scores ≥ median 0.06. Will be measured by the low-Empirical Dietary Index for Hyperinsulinemia scores. Descriptive statistics (i.e., means, standard deviations for continuous variables, and frequencies and percentages for discrete data) will be used to summarize demographics and clinical characteristics of study participants. Will be tested using multivariable-adjusted general linear mixed regression to accommodate within-person variance across post-baseline timepoints via a per-subject random effect. Will evaluate model assumptions via regression diagnostics and adjust model structure and outcome transformations as necessary to ensure proper model fit. Will be adjusted for age, baseline total caloric intake, body weight, and baseline value., Up to 12 weeks
Plasma biomarkers of cardiometabolic health, Plasma biomarkers of cardiometabolic health include C-peptide, and IGFBP-1, IGFBP-2. Descriptive statistics (i.e., means, standard deviations for continuous variables, and frequencies and percentages for discrete data) will be used to summarize demographics and clinical characteristics of study participants. Will be tested using multivariable-adjusted general linear mixed regression to accommodate within-person variance across post-baseline timepoints via a per-subject random effect. Will evaluate model assumptions via regression diagnostics and adjust model structure and outcome transformations as necessary to ensure proper model fit. Will be adjusted for age, baseline total caloric intake, body weight, and baseline value., From baseline to 12 weeks|Urine biomarkers of cardiometabolic health, Descriptive statistics (i.e., means, standard deviations for continuous variables, and frequencies and percentages for discrete data) will be used to summarize demographics and clinical characteristics of study participants. Will be tested using multivariable-adjusted general linear mixed regression to accommodate within-person variance across post-baseline timepoints via a per-subject random effect. Will evaluate model assumptions via regression diagnostics and adjust model structure and outcome transformations as necessary to ensure proper model fit. Will be adjusted for age, baseline total caloric intake, body weight, and baseline value., From baseline to 12 weeks|Patient reported outcomes (PROs), PROs will be assessed using Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System scales 29 Profile version 2.1 (domains: physical function, social roles, fatigue, depression, anxiety, pain, and sleep disturbance) and the Global Health Short Form. Descriptive statistics (i.e., means, standard deviations for continuous variables, and frequencies and percentages for discrete data) will be used to summarize demographics and clinical characteristics of study participants. Will be tested using multivariable-adjusted general linear mixed regression to accommodate within-person variance across post-baseline timepoints via a per-subject random effect. Will evaluate model assumptions via regression diagnostics and adjust model structure and outcome transformations as necessary to ensure proper model fit. Will be adjusted for age, baseline total caloric intake, body weight, and baseline value., Up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the feasibility of translating the low-Empirical Dietary Index for Hyperinsulinemia (EDIH) dietary pattern intervention from epidemiologic cohorts to the clinic in a single arm phase I trial among postmenopausal women at high risk for cancer and evaluate safety.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the change in patient reported outcomes (PRO) under the Low-EDIH dietary pattern at 12 weeks from baseline.

II. Evaluate the change in cardiometabolic biomarker profiles at 12 weeks from baseline (a) glycemic control and insulin response parameters measured using fasting glucose, insulin, hemoglobin A1C, C-peptide, HOMA-IR, HOMA-B and IGFBP-1, IGFBP-2, (b) lipid profiles (total cholesterol, triglycerides \[TG\], low density lipoprotein \[LDL\], higher high density lipoprotein \[HDL\]).

III. Assess change in circulating biomarkers associated with risk of breast cancer and low-grade chronic inflammatory state including C-reactive protein (CRP), TNFalpha-R2, IL-6 and leptin/adiponectin ratio at 12 weeks from baseline.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Collect stool samples and process for subsequent assessment of changes in the fecal microbiome structure and function related to the low-EDIH dietary pattern intervention.

II. Collect 24-hour urine samples and process for subsequent assessment of changes in targeted and non-targeted metabolomics and lipidomics alterations related to the low-EDIH dietary pattern intervention.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive the low-EDIH dietary pattern intervention consisting of 6 group nutrition education sessions focusing on foods to prioritize within each food group, food combinations, food preparation, discussion, simple cooking demonstrations, food tastings, smart shopping advising, and a question/answer period over 2 hours each at weeks 0, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6. Participants also attend 3 in-person or virtual individual nutrition counseling and motivational interviewing sessions over 30 minutes each at weeks 3 and 5, between weeks 7 and 9, and between weeks 9 and 11. Participants also wear an activity tracker and undergo blood sample collection on the study.

After completion of study intervention, participants are followed up in week 12.