Melphalan, Carboplatin, Mannitol, and Sodium Thiosulfate in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Progressive CNS Embryonal or Germ Cell Tumors
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of melphalan when given together with carboplatin, mannitol, and sodium thiosulfate, and to see how well they work in treating patients with central nervous system (CNS) embryonal or germ cell tumors that is growing, spreading, or getting worse (progressive) or has come back (recurrent). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as melphalan and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Osmotic blood-brain barrier disruption (BBBD) uses mannitol to open the blood vessels around the brain and allow cancer-killing substances to be carried directly to the brain. Sodium thiosulfate may help lessen or prevent hearing loss and toxicities in patients undergoing chemotherapy with carboplatin and BBBD. Giving melphalan together with carboplatin, mannitol, and sodium thiosulfate may be an effective treatment for recurrent or progressive CNS embryonal or germ cell tumors.
Central Nervous System Embryonal Neoplasm|Embryonal Tumor With Multilayered Rosettes, C19MC-Altered|Germ Cell Tumor|Medulloblastoma|Medulloepithelioma|Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Childhood Central Nervous System Embryonal Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Mannitol|DRUG: Melphalan|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Sodium Thiosulfate
Maximum tolerated dose (Phase I), Will be assessed based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity, graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. All toxicities will be tabulated by event and by overall. The toxicities will also be tabulated by highest grade. The recovery from toxicities (i.e. hematologic toxicities) will also be summarized., 6 weeks|Response rate (Phase II), Descriptive statistics will be estimated., Up to 5 years
Progression free survival rate (Phase II), Estimation made using Kaplan-Meier product limit estimation. A Cox proportional hazards regression model will be fit to the data to estimate the association of progression free survival and overall survival with baseline demographic and disease characteristics., Time from first study treatment to evidence of first progression, assessed at 2 years|Overall survival rate (Phase II), Estimation made using Kaplan-Meier product limit estimation. A Cox proportional hazards regression model will be fit to the data to estimate the association of progression free survival and overall survival with baseline demographic and disease characteristics., Time from time of first study treatment until death, assessed at 2 years|Change in neurocognitive assessment scores (Phase II), Quantitative scores, whenever possible, will be derived from each measure and converted to measure-specific Z scores using normative data. Post-treatment Z scores will be subtracted from pre-treatment Z scores to calculate absolute change in neuropsychological test performance. Significant change will be defined as change of 1 standard deviation. These data will be summarized descriptively., Baseline to 90 days after completion of study treatment|Proportion of patients with ototoxicity (Phase II), Will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Estimated using proportions with associated confidence intervals., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of intra-arterial (IA) melphalan given with IA carboplatin, osmotic BBBD and delayed intravenous (IV) sodium thiosulfate (STS) in subjects with recurrent or progressive embryonal and germ cell tumors of the CNS. (Phase I) II. To estimate the response rate in subjects with recurrent or progressive CNS embryonal and germ cell tumors treated with IA carboplatin, IA melphalan, osmotic BBBD and delayed IV STS. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) rates in subjects with recurrent or progressive CNS embryonal and germ cell tumors treated with IA carboplatin, IA melphalan, osmotic BBBD and delayed IV STS. (Phase II) II. To describe neuropsychological and audiology outcomes in subjects with recurrent or progressive CNS embryonal and germ cell tumors treated with IA carboplatin, IA melphalan, osmotic BBBD and delayed IV STS. (Phase II) III. To describe the overall toxicity of IA carboplatin and IA melphalan in conjunction with osmotic BBBD and delayed STS chemoprotection in subjects with recurrent or progressive CNS embryonal or germ cell tumors. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of melphalan followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive mannitol IA over 30 seconds, melphalan IA over 10 minutes, and carboplatin IA over 10 minutes. Patients then receive sodium thiosulfate IV over 15 minutes at 4 and 8 hours after carboplatin. Treatment repeats every 4-6 weeks for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually for 3 years.