Study of IMMU-130 in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Colorectal Cancer
This is a Phase I trial to study the safety of IMMU-130. IMMU-130 is composed of a drug attached to an antibody. The drug is the active ingredient in irinotecan which is a common chemotherapy drug used for colorectal cancer. Antibodies are proteins normally made by the immune system. They bind to substances that don't belong in the body to prevent harm to the body. The antibody in this study was designed to bind to a marker located on colorectal cancer tumors. The antibody was originally made from mouse proteins, but was changed in the laboratory to be more like human antibodies. This study will investigate how IMMU-130 acts for the treatment of colorectal cancer. The study is mainly being done to see if IMMU-130 is safe.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: IMMU-130
Safety, The primary outcome measured will be safety of IMMU-130 administered at different dose levels. Safety will be assessed by reviewing the number of adverse events and overall toxicity., Safety will be measured routinely during the 6 months of administration and afterwards during follow-up for up to 5 years
efficacy, The secondary objectives are to assess pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity, and to obtain preliminary information on efficacy with this dosing schedule. Efficacy will be assessed using CT scan imaging., Efficacy will be measured every 8-12 weeks during treatment and every 6 months during the 2nd year and then annually up to 5 years thereafter.
This is a Phase I trial to study the safety of IMMU-130. IMMU-130 is composed of a drug attached to an antibody. The drug is the active ingredient in irinotecan which is a common chemotherapy drug used for colorectal cancer. Antibodies are proteins normally made by the immune system. They bind to substances that don't belong in the body to prevent harm to the body. The antibody in this study was designed to bind to a marker located on colorectal cancer tumors. The antibody was originally made from mouse proteins, but was changed in the laboratory to be more like human antibodies. This study will investigate how IMMU-130 acts for the treatment of colorectal cancer. The study is mainly being done to see if IMMU-130 is safe.