ICCRT vs. CRT for Locally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
This trial is a multi-center phase III clinical trial. The purpose of this trial is to explore whether concurrent chemoradiotherapy is not inferior to induction chemotherapy combined with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Locally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Induction Chemotherapy|DRUG: Concurrent Chemotherapy|RADIATION: Definitive Radiotherapy
FFS (Failure-free Survival), Defined as the time from randomization to tumor recurrence, distant metastasis, or death due to any reason, whichever occurs first. Patients who withdraw or who are lost to follow-up will be censored at the date last known to be alive and progression free. Patients not having an event will be censored at the date last seen alive., 3 year
OS (Overall Survival), Defined as the time from randomization until death from any cause. Patients who withdraw or who are lost to follow-up will be censored at the date last known to be alive. Patients remaining alive throughout the duration of the study will have their survival time censored on the date last seen alive., 3 year|LRFS (Locoregional Recurrence-free Survival), Defined as the time from randomization to local or regional recurrence. Patients who withdraw or who are lost to follow-up will be censored at the date last known to be alive and recurrence free. Patients not having an event will be censored at the date last seen alive., 3 year|DMFS (Distant Metastasis-free Survival), Defined as the time of randomization to the appearance of distant metastasis. Patients who withdraw or who are lost to follow-up will be censored at the date last known to be alive and metastasis free. Patients not having an event will be censored at the date last seen alive., 3 year|AE (Adverse events), Adverse events during the treatment period will be assessed according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 5.0). Late AE of radiotherapy will be assessed according to RTOG criteria., 3 year
This trial is a multi-center phase III clinical trial. The purpose of this trial is to explore whether concurrent chemoradiotherapy is not inferior to induction chemotherapy combined with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma.