Multidisciplinary Prehabilitation and Postoperative Rehabilitation in Patients Undergoing Resection of Colon Cancer
ONCOFIT is a randomized clinical trial with a two-arm parallel design aimed at determining the influence of a multidisciplinary prehabilitation + postoperative program on post-surgery complications in patients undergoing resection of colon cancer. This intervention will include supervised physical exercise, dietary behavior change, and psychological support comparing its influence to the standard care.
Colon Cancer|Postoperative Complications
BEHAVIORAL: Prehabilitation program (4 week before the surgery)|BEHAVIORAL: Postoperative program (12 week after the surgery)|OTHER: Usual Care
Post-surgery complications., Post-surgery complications determined by the Comprehensive Complication Index (CCI). Minimum value: 0 // Maximum value: no upper limit. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., 1-year post-surgery (i.e., week 57)|Post-surgery complications., Post-surgery complications determined by the Comprehensive Complication Index (CCI). Minimum value: 0 // Maximum value: no upper limit. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., 12 weeks after surgery (i.e., week 17)
Additional surgery-derived events., Electronic medical records will be used to register data regarding primary and total prolonged hospital length of stay., 1-year post-surgery (i.e., week 57).|Additional surgery-derived events., Electronic medical records will be used to register data regarding readmissions., 1-year post-surgery (i.e., week 57).|Additional surgery-derived events., Electronic medical records will be used to register data regarding emergency department appointments., 1-year post-surgery (i.e., week 57).|Cardiorespiratory fitness, Cardiorespiratory fitness measured by the 6-minute walking test (6MWT) distance, expresed in total m., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Muscular strength, Muscular strength assessed by handgrip strength. Handgrip strength will be determined using a digital hand dynamometer and expressed as total kg., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Health-related quality of life., The 36-Item Short Form Health Survey questionnaire (SF-36). Minimum value: 0 // Maximum value: 100. Higher scores mean a better outcome., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Self-scored depression inventory, The Beck Depression Inventory-II questionnaire. Minimum value: 0 // Maximum value: 63. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Trait and state anxiety, The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI). Minimum value: 20 // Maximum value: 80. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Dispositional level of optimism, The Life Orientation Test-Revised. Minimum value: 0 // Maximum value: 24. Higher scores mean a better outcome., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Positive and negative affect, The Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS). Positive affect: Minimum value: 10 // Maximum value: 50. Higher scores mean a better outcome. Negative affect: Minimum value: 10 // Maximum value: 50. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Satisfaction With Life, The Satisfaction With Life Scale. Minimum value: 5 // Maximum value: 35. Higher scores mean a better outcome., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Perceived emotional intelligence, The Trait Meta-Mood Scale (TMMS-24) is a 24-item self-report instrument with three subscales measuring three key aspects of perceived emotional intelligence: Attention, Clarity and Repair. Each of these three subscales consists of eight items with a 5-point Likert response format (ranging from 1 to 5). Subscale total scores are obtained by summing responses to all items and thus range from 8 to 40, with higher scores indicating greater level of the characteristic assessed., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Weight, Weight measured with a scale (kg)., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Height, Height measured with a stadiometer (cm)., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Neck, waist and hip circumferences., Neck, waist and hip circumferences will be assessed with an anthropometric tape measure (cm)., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Bone mineral density, Body composition assessment will be obtained through a full-body dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scanner. Bone mineral density in g/cm2., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Lean mass, Body composition assessment will be obtained through a full-body dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scanner. Lean mass in kg., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Fat mass, Body composition assessment will be obtained through a full-body dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scanner. Fat mass in kg., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Visceral adipose tissue, Body composition assessment will be obtained through a full-body dual energy X-ray absorptiometry scanner. Visceral adipose tissue in kg., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Glycemic profile, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the glycemic profile. We will obtain plasma glucose (mg/dL) and insulin (mg/dL) levels., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Lipid profile, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the lipid profile., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Hepatic transaminases, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the hepatic transaminases levels., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Red cells, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the red cells levels., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Immunological blood profiles, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the immunological blood profiles. The following parameters will be obtained: Leukocytes (10\*3 uL), Neutrophils (10\*3 uL), Lymphocytes (10\*3 uL), Monocytes (10\*3 uL), Eosinophils (10\*3 uL), Basophils (10\*3 uL) and LUC cells (10\*3 uL)., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Inflammatory factors, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the inflammatory factors levels (PCR, leptin, adiponectin, resistin, IL 6, IL 10 and PAI 1; all of them expressed as pg/mL), Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Renal function parameters, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the renal function parameters (creatinine and urea; both will be expressed in mg/dL), Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Tumour markers, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the tumour markers levels (CA 19-9, CA 242, CA 72-4, TPA and TPS; all will be expressed as pg/mL)), Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Hormones, Blood samples will be drawn from patient' antecubital vein in a supine position during the morning after an overnight fasting to assess the hormones levels (T3, T4, testosterone, cortisol, estrogens and DHEAs; all will be expressed as pg/mL)), Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Blood pressure., The investigators will also asses systolic and diastolic blood pressure in the right arm at rest., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|HOMA index., The investigators will calculate the homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance index (HOMA). HOMA index was calculated as follows: (fasting glucose(mg/dl) x fasting serum insulin (μU/mL))/405., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|FLI index., The investigators will calculate the fatty liver index (FLI) as a validated surrogate marker of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Cardiometabolic risk., The investigators will calculate a cardiometabolic risk score based on the International Diabetes Federation (IDF) criteria. The cardiometabolic risk score is a continuous variable with a mean of 0 and a standard deviation of 1 by definition, with lower scores denoting a more favorable profile., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Physical activity and sedentariness., The International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) will be used to evaluate the current physical activity level of the participants. The survey validity and reliability studies have been conducted in Turkey by Ozturk. The survey consists of 27 questions and 5 parts. Minimum value = 0 min/day of physical activity // Maximum value = 1440 min/day of physical activity. Higher scores imply a more physically active pattern., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Dietary habits., A food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) conducted by a trained nutritionist. Based on dietary data from the FFQ, the investigators will calculate the Mediterranean Diet Score. Minimum value: 0 // Maximum value: 14. Higher scores mean a better outcome., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Others unhealthy habits., A seven-day self-reported tobacco and alcohol consumption logs will be used to determine smoking and alcohol intake registering total number of cigarettes and alcoholic units/day, time and situation in which both are consumed and cigarette type of alcoholic drink., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Nicotine dependence., The Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence will be used to measure patients' nicotine dependence. Minimum value: 0 // Maximum value: 10. Higher scores mean a worse outcome., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Sleep quality., Sleep quality will be determined by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) scale. PSQI global score ranges from 0 to 21, with a score higher than 5 indicating poor sleep quality, Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).|Fecal microbiota analysis, A fecal sample (50-60 g) will be obtained and analyzed., Baseline (week 0), at preoperative conditions (week 5), at the end of the PPP intervention (week 17) and 1-year post-surgery (week 57).
Nowadays, colon cancer is one of the most common types of tumors worldwide being surgical resection the elective therapy for its curation. However, a surgery is a stressful procedure that may involve several postoperative complications. Risk factors for such undesirable events are closely related to lifestyle issues including decreased physical activity levels or dietary unhealthy habits. Recent studies have suggested that the implementation of multidisciplinary prehabilitation and postoperative interventions based on lifestyle habits may be a potential strategy for accelerate post-surgical recovery. To the best of our knowledge, the combined effect of a Prehabilitation + Postoperative Programs (PPP) on post-surgery complications and functional capacity of patients undergoing resection of colon cancer remains unclear. ONCOFIT is a randomized clinical trial with a two-arm parallel design aimed at determining the influence of a multidisciplinary PPP on post-surgery complications in patients undergoing resection of colon cancer. This intervention will include supervised physical exercise, dietary behavior change, and psychological support comparing its influence to the standard care. Primary and secondary endpoints will be assessed at baseline, at preoperative conditions, at the end of the PPP intervention and 1-year post-surgery, including: post-surgery complications, prolonged hospital length of stay, readmissions and emergency department call within 1-year after surgery, functional capacity, patient' reported outcome measures targeted, anthropometry and body composition, clinical markers, physical activity levels and sedentariness, dietary habits, others unhealthy habits, sleep quality and fecal microbiota diversity and composition. Considering the feasibility of the present intervention in a real-life scenario, ONCOFIT will contribute to the standardization of a cost-effective strategy for preventing and improving health-related consequences in patients undergoing resection of colon cancer with an important clinical and economic impact, not only in the scientific community but also in the clinical practice.