Evaluation of Grief Therapy Approaches for Bereaved Parents
The purpose of this study is to compare three types of support programs for parents who have lost a child. The study will see how these support programs affect participants' grief and depression symptoms. The three support programs are called Meaning-Centered Grief Therapy, Supportive Counseling, and Enhanced Usual Care.
Grief|Bereavement|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Meaning-Centered Grief Therapy|BEHAVIORAL: Supportive Psychotherapy|BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced Usual Care
Change in Prolonged Grief Disorder-13-R (PG-13-R) scores, The Prolonged Grief-13-Revised (PG-13-R) is a 13-item self-report scale evaluating the proposed symptoms of prolonged grief disorder. The PG-13-R assesses the severity of 10 grief-related symptoms using a 5-point Likert-type scale. Additional items evaluate the experience of a significant loss, symptom duration, and functional impairment. The PG-13-R yields a score between 10 and 50, where a higher score indicates that a person experiences higher levels of prolonged grief., Baseline up to 10 months|Change in Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale - Revised (CESD-R) score, The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale-Revised (CESD-R) is a 20-item self-report measure assessing the frequency of depressive symptoms in the past week on a 4-point scale. Total scores range from 0 to 60, with scores above 16 indicating possible clinically significant depression levels., Baseline up to 10 months
Change in PROMIS: Global Health Scale (PROMIS-GH) scores, The PROMIS-Global Health Scale (PROMIS-GH), is a National Institutes of Health-developed and well-validated self-report assessment that captures global mental health (i.e., quality of life, mental health, satisfaction with social activities, and emotional problems) and physical health (i.e., physical health, physical function, pain, and fatigue). PROMIS-GH consists of 10-items, with each utilizing a 7-day recall period. The initial 9-items make use of a 5-point scale, with 3 separate verbal anchors that ask patients to rate their health or abilities, indicate how often they are experiencing a phenomenon or how severe their symptomatic experience is. A final item asks patients to indicate their average pain on a 0-10 numeric rating scale (i.e., 0 = no pain, 10 = worst pain imaginable). The composite score is a sum of each item, and scores range from 10 to 50., Baseline up to 10 months|Change in State-Trait Anxiety Inventory - Short Form (STAI-SF) scores, The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-SF) is a 10-item valid and reliable self-report measure of both state and trait anxiety. For both of these subscales, higher scores indicate higher levels of anxiety. Responses range from 1 (almost never) to 4 (almost always), with higher scores reflecting increased anxiety., Baseline up to 10 months|Change in Beck Hopelessness Scale - Short Form (BHS-SF) scores, The Beck Hopelessness Scale-Short Form (BHS-SF) is a 4-item true-false self-report measure of participants' degree of pessimism and hopelessness. Scores range from 0 to 12. A higher score indicates more experiences of pessimism or lack of hope., Baseline up to 10 months|Change in Presence of Regret Scale scores, The presence of regret and associated distress will be assessed by items used in the investigative team's prior research on regret. The measure asks respondents to rate level of distress associated with regret on a scale from 1-10 with higher scores indicating greater distress., Baseline up to 10 months|Change in Posttraumatic Growth Inventory - Short Form (PTGI-SF) scores, The Posttraumatic Growth Inventory-Short Form (PTGI-SF) is a 10-item self-report measure that assesses positive outcomes following stressful life events. Scores range from 0 to 50, and higher total scores reflect higher levels of posttraumatic growth., Baseline up to 10 months|Change in Continuing Bonds Scale (CBS) scores, The Continuing Bonds Scale (CBS) is an 11-item self-report measure that assesses the degree of continued connection with a deceased loved one on a 5-point scale. Scores range from 11 to 55, with higher scores reflecting a stronger continued bond., Baseline up to 10 months|Change in Prolonged Grief Disorder - Clinical Global Impressions Scale - Severity and Improvement Items (PGD-CGI) ratings, The Prolonged Grief Disorder-Clinical Global Impression Scale (PGD-CGI), adapted from trials examining Complicated Grief Treatment, will be used to assess global severity and symptom improvement. It is a two-item observer assessment that uses a seven-point scale for a global rating of illness severity and improvement. Scores range from 1 to 7, with lower scores indicating low severity of symptoms and improvement in functioning., Baseline up to 10 months
The purpose of this study is to compare three types of support programs for parents who have lost a child. The study will see how these support programs affect participants' grief and depression symptoms. The three support programs are called Meaning-Centered Grief Therapy, Supportive Counseling, and Enhanced Usual Care.