Neoadjuvant RCT Versus CT for Patients With Locally Advanced, Potentially Resectable Adenocarcinoma of the GEJ
This is a multicenter, prospective, randomized, stratified, controlled, open-label study comparing neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy with FLOT versus FLOT chemotherapy alone für patients with locally advanced, potentially resectable adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction (GEJ)
Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Calcium folinate|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Oxaliplatin during radiotherapy|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil during radiotherapy
Comparison of PFS between arms, to compare PFS in patients with resectable GEJ adenocarcinoma receiving perioperative FLOT alone versus perioperative FLOT combined with neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy where PFS ist defined as the time from randomization to disease progression or disease recurrence after surgery or death from any cause, up to 5 years
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) where OS is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, up to 5 years|R0 resection rate, R0 resection rate where R0 resection is defined as microscopically margin negative resection with no gross or microscopic tumor remains in the areas of the primary tumor and/or samples regianal lymph nodes based on evaluation by the local pathologist., after surgery, approx. 12 weeks after randomization|Number of harvested lymph nodes, Number of harvested lymph nodes during surgery, after surgery, approx. 12 weeks after randomization|Site of tumor relapse, Site of tumor relapse if tumor recurrence/relapse occurs, 5 years|Overall survival rate at 1, 3 and 5 years, Overall survival rate is defined as the proportion of patients known to be alive at 1, 3 or 5 years after randomization, 1 year, 3 years, 5 years|Patient reported outcomes: quality of life according to questionnaire EORTC-QLQ-C30, quality of life scores according to validated questionnaires EORTC-QLQ-C30, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to approximately 68 months|Patient reported outcomes: quality of life according to questionnaire EORTC module OG25, quality of life scores according to validated questionnaire EORTC module OG25, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to approximately 68 months
The RACE trial seeks to demonstrate superiority of preoperative FLOT induction chemotherapy followed by preoperative radiochemotherapy and postoperative FLOT chemotherapy over perioperative FLOT chemotherapy without radiotherapy in patients with adenocarcinoma of the gastroesophageal junction undergoing adequate oncological surgery.

Eligible patients will be randomly allocated to one of two treatment groups, i.e. preoperative chemotherapy (Arm A) or preoperative chemotherapy with subsequent preoperative radiochemotherapy (arm B), both followed by resection and postoperative completion of chemotherapy. Randomization will occur in a 1:1 ratio with stratification by primary tumor site (Siewert I vs. Siewert II/III).

Arm A:

Patients randomized to Arm A (control arm) will be treated with four preoperative cycles of FLOT. Cycles will be repeated every two weeks. The preoperative chemotherapy duration in Arm A is eight weeks. Surgical resection will follow 4-6 weeks after day 1 of the last cycle of neoadjuvant therapy. Postoperative chemotherapy will start 6-12 weeks after surgery and consists of another four cycles of FLOT every two weeks. The total treatment period is 25-32 weeks.

Arm B:

Patients randomized in Arm B (experimental arm) will be treated with two cycles of FLOT every two weeks. Radiochemotherapy will start three weeks after day 1 of the second cycle and consists of oxaliplatin and infusional 5-fluorouracil plus concurrent radiotherapy given to a dose of 45 Gy (25 daily fractions with 1.8 Gy) over five weeks. The preoperative treatment duration is 10 weeks. Surgical resection will follow 4-6 weeks after last treatment with chemotherapy / radiation. Postoperative chemotherapy will start 6-12 weeks after surgery and consists of four cycles of FLOT every two weeks. The total treatment period is 26-33 weeks.