Aromatherapy Methods in Reducing Anxiety Before Breast Biopsy
A breast biopsy is a cause for anxiety for most women when faced with a diagnosis of breast cancer. Physiological and psychological effects of breast biopsy may continue in the pre-biopsy and post-biopsy period. The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of two different aromatherapy methods applied in reducing anxiety before breast biopsy.
Patient Relations, Nurse|Patient Satisfaction|Anxiety State|Breast Cancer
OTHER: Lavender Aromatherapy Tablet
State Anxiety Level, State Anxiety Level is evaluated by Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory - This inventory is a four-degree Likert type scale ranging from "Almost never" to "Almost always". In the state anxiety scale, the individual evaluates how he/ she feels "right now". The total score obtained from each scale varies between 20 and 80. A high score indicates a high anxiety level, a low score indicates a low anxiety level, Evaluation of the differences between anxiety scales score - The scale is filled in 2 times - before breast biopsy (1), and after immediately breast biopsy (2)
Anxiety level was evaluated according to objective criteria by pretesting and posttesting lavender, lavender-mint and odorless (placebo) aromatherapy tablets applied before the biopsy in patients scheduled for breast biopsy.

The study was conducted with 135 patients, 90 of whom were in the experimental group and 45 in the control group. Patients were randomly assigned to the experimental and control groups according to their sequence numbers.

Before the biopsy, lavender aromatherapy and lavender-mint aromatherapy tablets were administered to the experimental group, and an odorless (placebo) aromatherapy tablet to the control group. Aromatherapy tablets 20 minutes after the procedure. First, a small (approximately 1x 0.5 inch), rectangular, absorbent, self-adhesive tablet containing 2 ml of lavender essential oil (10) was adhered to the patient's shoulder level. Research data were collected with the "Spielberger State Anxiety Scale" to determine the level of anxiety before and after breast biopsy.