Psychological Intervention for Caregivers of Patients With Malignant Gliomas
This research study is evaluating a psychological intervention for caregivers of loved ones with malignant gliomas.
Malignant Glioma
OTHER: Psychological Intervention
Feasibility of Caregiver Enrollment in the Intervention: Percentage of Eligible Caregivers Who Agree to Participate in the Study of This Intervention, The investigators will report the percentage of eligible caregivers who agree to participate in the study of this intervention. The intervention will be deemed feasible if at least 70% (+/- 18%) of eligible caregivers are enrolled in the study., 2 years|Feasibility of Caregiver Participation in a Population-specific Psychological Intervention: Percentage of Eligible Caregivers Who Participate in Each Session, The investigators will report the percentage of eligible caregivers who participate in each session. Participation will be considered feasible if at least 70% of enrolled participants complete ≥50% of the sessions., 2 years
Caregivers of loved ones with malignant gliomas frequently experience a physical and psychological burden caring for their loved ones. The purpose of this study is to find out whether a psychological intervention can help caregivers learn effective coping methods during their loved one's treatment and make the experience of being a caregiver more manageable.

The psychological intervention will take place in a series of six sessions. A trained social worker or psychologist will meet with the participant or talk with the participant over the telephone or by video conference for 45 minutes at a time to discuss the caregiver experience while developing effective skills to support the loved one as well as the participant over the course of the loved one's illness.

Upon the completion of the sessions, the investigators will have a short (30-minute) exit interview to obtain the participant's feedback on the intervention. The investigators will use the feedback to improve the intervention before further testing its effectiveness in future research studies. The investigators will also ask the participant to complete questionnaires before and after their participation in the intervention to help the investigators understand the participant's coping skills, caregiving burden, mood, and understanding about the loved one's illness.