Observatory of the Prescription of Erythropoietin as Treatment of Anemia Induced by Chemotherapy or Allograft Conditioning Among the Patients With a Haematological Malignancy
Anemia concerns a lot of patients with cancer and affects their quality of life (QOL). Numerous studies in oncology have demonstrated the benefit of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESA) in the treatment of anemia. ESAs allow the improvement of QOL,of the hemoglobin level (Hb) and is a validated alternative to transfusion.

However, in hematology, if there are some specific recommendations for the use of ESAs in lymphoid pathology, there are none for myeloid disorders and in the context of autografts and allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT). Thus, the investigators are in particular interested in both indications: treatment of anemia in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients treated with chemotherapy, and the in patients receiving a myeloablative or a non-myeloablative conditioning before allogeneic HSCT, whatever type of donor and cell source.
Anemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Change in the Haemoglobin level from the inclusion to the final visit, At Day 1 and Month 6
Change in Fact-An questionnaire score, Patient's quality of life: Fact-An questionnaire, At Day 1 and Month 6|Change in Fact-An subscales, Patient's quality of life: Fact-An subscales, At Day 1 and Month 6|Change in Fact-G questionnaire score, Patient's quality of life: Fact-G questionnaire (including physical well-being, social well-being, emotional well-being and functional well-being), At Day 1 and Month 6|Change in Fact-Anemia questionnaire score, Patient's quality of life: Fact-Anemia (including Fact-Fatigue), At Day 1 and Month 6|Change in the Number of red blood cell transfusions, Data on the erythrocyte recovery, At Month 3 and Month 6|Change in the Number of platelet transfusions, Data on the platelet recovery, At Month 3 and Month 6
In this context, a prospective observatory was conducted from 2006 to 2009 in the hematology department of Prof. Michallet to assess the impact of prescribing ESAs (epoetin beta and darbepoetin) for these two distinct patient populations. A significant improvement in QOL during the six-month follow- up was observed in both groups. The effectiveness of the ESA on the red cell recovery and the reduction of red blood cell transfusions was established by comparing the evolution of Hb and transfusion needs of the population under ESA to a matched population. Moreover, no significant difference in the occurrence of thromboembolic events in survival and progression-free survival was observed between the ESA group and the control group.