Phase III Study of Sorafenib in Patients With Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC)
A multicenter uncontrolled study of sorafenib in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) to assess the pharmacokinetic profile, safety and tolerability, and efficacy.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Sorafenib (Nexavar, BAY43-9006)
Pharmacokinetics Measured as Area Under Curve (AUC[0-12h]), The AUC(0-12h) was the observed AUC, calculated using a combination of linear and log trapezoidal rules, from pre-dose to 12 hours post-dose. The normalized AUC (AUC norm) is AUC (0-12h) divided by (dose \[mg\]/weight \[kg\])., 12 hours after at least 21 days of uninterrupted dosing|Pharmacokinetics Measured as Concentration (Cmax at Tmax and Cmin at Tmin), Cmax (maximum concentration) was measured at the time point at which the maximum concentration (Tmax) was observed. Cmin (minimum concentration) was measured at the time point at which the minimum concentration (Tmin) was observed., 12 hours after at least 21 days of uninterrupted dosing|Pharmacokinetics Measured as Concentration (Cmax Normalized at Tmax and Cmin Normalized at Tmin), Cmax (maximum concentration) was measured at the time point at which the maximum concentration (Tmax) was observed. Cmin (minimum concentration) was measured at the time point at which the minimum concentration (Tmin) was observed. The normalized variables (Cmax norm and Cmin norm) are the variables (Cmax and Cmin, see Primary Outcome Measure 2) divided by \[dose (mg)/weight (kg)\]., 12 hours after at least 21 days of uninterrupted dosing
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from the date of receipt of first dose of study drug to disease progression, radiological or clinical, or death, whichever was earlier. Subjects still alive without tumor progression at the time of analysis were censored at their date of last tumor evaluation., Number of days from date of first dose of study drug to date first observed disease progression or death (whichever was earlier) was documented up to 17.25 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) was measured from the date of first dose of study drug until the date of death due to any cause. Survival time for subjects still alive at the time of analysis was censored at the date of last contact., Time from start of therapy to death up to 17.25 months|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression (TTP) was defined as the time from date of receipt of first dose of study drug to disease progression, radiological or clinical. Subjects without tumor progression at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of tumor evaluation., Time from start of study medication to clinical or radiological disease progression which ever occurs first up to 17.25 months|Disease Control (DC), The DC was defined as subjects who had a best response rating of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) that was maintained for at least 28 days from the first demonstration of that rating. CR: disappearance of all clinical and radiological evidence of tumor (both target and non-target). PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameters (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD. SD: steady state of disease; do not qualify for PR or progressive disease (PD)., From start to end of study medication up to 17.25 months|Overall Best Response, The best overall response was defined as the number of subjects with a confirmed CR, PR, SD, or PD. Tumor response was evaluated using RECIST. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of measured lesions taking as ref. the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Appearance of new lesions will also constitute PD. In exceptional circumstances, unequivocal progression of a non-measured lesion may be accepted as evidence of disease progression., Best response observed from start to end of study medication up to 17.25 months|Overall Response Duration, Overall response duration was to be calculated for subjects who had a confirmed PR or CR, defined as the time from first assessment showing a PR or CR to progression or death., From PR or CR to progression or death up to 17.25 months|Time to Objective Response, Time to objective response was defined as the time from the date of receipt of first dose of study drug to first assessment showing a confirmed PR or CR., Time from start of study medication to first documented PR or CR up to 17.25 months
A multicenter uncontrolled study of sorafenib in patients with unresectable and/or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) to assess the pharmacokinetic profile, safety and tolerability, and efficacy.