Randomized, Double-Blind Trial of Erlotinib/Pazopanib or Erlotinib/Placebo in Patients With Previously Treated Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized, placebo-controlled, Phase II trial will compare the combination of erlotinib with pazopanib (providing concurrent EGFR and VEGFR inhibition) with erlotinib alone in the second- or third-line treatment of patients with advanced NSCLC. This study will be conducted though the Sarah Cannon Research Consortium, a community-based clinical trial network.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pazopanib|DRUG: Erlotinib
Progression-free Survival, The length of time, in months, that patients were alive from first date of protocol treatment until worsening of disease. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 14 months
Overall Survival, The length of time, in months, that patients were alive from first date of protocol treatment until death., 18 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The percentage of patients having an objective benefit from treatment per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR + PR., 18 Months
Erlotinib is the current treatment standard for second- or third-line therapy of advanced NSCLC. Since angiogenesis inhibitors have also shown activity in NSCLC, the simultaneous inhibition of the EGFR and VEGF pathway may improve the efficacy of therapy. In a recently reported Phase III trial (Hainsworth et al. 2008), the combination of bevacizumab and erlotinib improved the Progression- Free-Survival (PFS) vs. erlotinib alone when given as second-line therapy in NSCLC (3.4 months vs. 1.7 months, respectively; HR 0.63). Pazopanib also inhibits the angiogenesis pathway, and may have advantages over bevacizumab including: (1) inhibition of other potentially important targets, including PDGFR; and (2) more convenient oral administration.