Droplet-BC Screening Test for the Detection of Breast Cancer, the DROPLET-BC Study
This study investigates if a new type of test called Droplet-BC screening test can classify breast cancer patients from non-cancer volunteers by circulating small-noncoding RNA in the blood with a statistical validity. This study also investigates if this test can classify the subgroup of breast cancer patients with a variety of conditions. Information from this study may provide a new method of breast cancer screening/diagnosis
Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Droplet-BC Test|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Sensitivity of the Droplet-BC screening test for detecting breast cancer, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Specificity of the Droplet-BC screening test for detecting breast cancer, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)
Sensitivity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of early-stage breast cancer (BC), Early-stage means breast ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) stage and stage I/II BC. Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Specificity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of early-stage breast cancer, Early-stage means DCIS stage and stage I/II BC. Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Sensitivity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of patients into non-cancer volunteer (Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System [BI-RADS] categories 1 and 2) and BC patient subgroups, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Specificity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of patients into non-cancer volunteer (BI-RADS categories 1 and 2) and BC patient subgroups, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Sensitivity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of different subgroups between non-cancer volunteers (BIRADS category 1) and BC patients plus non-cancer volunteers (BI-RADS category 2), Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Specificity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of different subgroups between non-cancer volunteers (BIRADS category 1) and BC patients plus non-cancer volunteers (BI-RADS category 2), Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Sensitivity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of non-cancer volunteers into BI-RADS categories 0-5 (small cohort study), Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Specificity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of non-cancer volunteers into BI-RADS categories 0-5 (small cohort study), Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Sensitivity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of BC patients into cancer stages 0-IV, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Specificity of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of BC patients into cancer stages 0-IV, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Sensitivity of the Droplet-BC test compared with mammogram for detecting BC by extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have mammogram results, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Sensitivity of the Droplet-BC test compared with ultrasound for detecting BC by extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have ultrasound results, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)|Sensitivity of Droplet-BC test compared with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for detecting BC by extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have MRI results, Assessed within subgroups of participants determined by cancer history, medication, family history of cancer, and/or BRCA status., Up to study completion (estimated 18 months)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of the Droplet-BC screening test for distinguishing breast cancer (BC) patients from non-cancer volunteers, using reference data confirmed at sites.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of early-stage BC.

II. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening test for classifying patients into non-cancer volunteer (Breast Imaging-Reporting and Data System \[BI-RADS\] Categories 1 and 2) and BC patient subgroups.

III. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening test to classify different subgroups between non-cancer volunteers (BI-RADS category 1) versus BC patients plus non-cancer volunteers (BI- RADS category 2).

IV. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening test for the classification of non-cancer volunteers into BI-RADS categories 0-5 (small cohort study).

V. To determine the performance (sensitivity and specificity) of the Droplet-BC screening test for the multi-classification among cancer stage.

VI. To compare the sensitivity of the Droplet-BC test with mammogram for detecting BC by extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have mammogram results.

VII. To compare the sensitivity of the Droplet-BC test with ultrasound for detecting BC by extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have ultrasound results.

VIII. To compare the sensitivity of the Droplet-BC test with MRI for detecting BC by extracting a subgroup of BC patients that have magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) results.

IX. To conduct all analyses described above with subgroups of participants matched as closely as possible for age, race/ethnicity, cancer history, current medication, family history of cancer, and/or breast cancer gene (BRCA) status.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the Droplet-BC test to detect cancer among different age groups.

II. To evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the Droplet-BC test to detect cancer among individuals of differing ethnicities.

III. To compare expression levels of small ribonucleic acid (RNAs) among different age groups.

IV. To compare expression levels of small RNAs among individuals of differing ethnicities.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo collection of blood sample for the Droplet-BC test. Breast cancer patients' medical records are also reviewed.