Venetoclax as Consolidation in CLL Patients Treated With BTK Inhibitor Monotherapy
This is an open-label, multicenter, phase 2, non-randomized study aiming to study the efficacy and safety of fixed-duration venetoclax consolidation in CLL patients who are on BTK inhibitor monotherapy. Patients who are on BTK inhibitor monotherapy for ≥ 6 months and still responsive are included. The study includes patients who are treatment-naive before taking BTK inhibitors. Patients will be treated with the BTK inhibitor plus full-dose venetoclax for 12 cycles after a standard 5-week dose ramp-up. Peripheral blood and bone marrow MRD status will be evaluated during and after the treatment. After the completion of combination therapy, patients will stop both BTK inhibitor and venetoclax and be followed.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) / Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma (SLL)
DRUG: Venetoclax combined with Ibrutinib|DRUG: Venetoclax combined with Zanubrutinib|DRUG: Venetoclax combined with Acalabrutinib|DRUG: Venetoclax combined with Orelabrutinib
Rate of BM-uMRD after completion of combination therapy (Day 1 of Cycle 16), Rate of BM-uMRD is defined by negative MRD in the bone marrow by flow cytometry at a sensitivity of 10\^-4. The Clopper Pearson method is used to estimate the 95% two-sided confidence interval (CI) of the rate of BM-uMRD., On Day 1 of Cycle 16 (each cycle is 28 days)
Rate of undetected peripheral blood MRD by flow cytometry, Rate of undetected peripheral blood MRD is defined by negative MRD in the peripheral blood by flow cytometry at a sensitivity of 10\^-4., On screening, Day 1 of Cycle 4, Day 1 of Cycle 7, Day 1 of Cycle 10, Day 1 of Cycle 16, Day 1 of Cycle 20, Day 1 of Cycle 24, Day 1 of Cycle 28 and Day 1 of Cycle 34 (each cycle is 28 days)|Rate of complete response (CR), CR is defined by the 2018 IWCLL criteria. Enhanced contrast CT combined with bone marrow examination will be performed to determine if a patient achieve CR., On Day 1 of Cycle 7, Day 1 of Cycle 16, Day 1 of Cycle 22, and Day 1 of Cycle 28 (each cycle is 28 days)|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the first dose of venetoclax to progression, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. For subjects without progression, relapse, or death at the time of analysis, EFS will be censored at the last assessment date., From the first dose of venetoclax until the date of progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 112 months|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the first dose of venetoclax to death due to any cause. Subjects who remain alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the last known alive date of the subject., From the first dose of venetoclax until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 112 months|Time to next treatment (TTNT), TTNT is defined as the time from the first dose of venetoclax to the next CLL-directed therapies., From the first dose of venetoclax to the next CLL-directed therapies due to progression, assessed up to 112 months|Adverse Events, All treatment-emergent AEs will be included in the analysis. For each AE, the number and percentage of subjects who experience at least one occurrence of the given event will be summarized. The number and percent of subjects with TEAEs will be summarized according to intensity (CTCAE, v5) or IWCLL for hematologic toxicity, and drug relationship, as well as categorized by system organ class and preferred term. Summaries, listings, datasets, or subject narratives may be provided, as appropriate, for those subjects who die, who discontinue treatment due to an AE, or who experience a severe AE or a SAE., From screening to 30 days after the end of cycle 12 (each cycle is 28 days)
MRD relapse, MRD relapse is now defined as either: (1) conversion of MRD negativity to MRD positivity, independent of the MRD technique, or (2) increase of MRD ≥ 1 log10 between any 2 positive samples measured in the same tissue (PB or BM) in patients with MRD+ CLL., From the date of MRD negativity to the date of MRD positivity or the occurrence of increase of MRD ≥ 1 log10 between any 2 positive samples measured in the same tissue, assessed up to 112 months|Clearance of BTK C481S mutation, Baseline BTK C418S mutation by droplet digital PCR will performed. Patients with detected baseline BTK C481S mutation will be re-evaluated at C4D1, C7D1, C10D1, and C16D1 to determine the effects of venetoclax on the clearance of BTK C481S mutation., On Day 1 of Cycle 4, Day 1 of Cycle 7, Day 1 of Cycle 10, and Day 1 of Cycle 16 (each cycle is 28 days)|Occurance of laboratory or clinical TLS, In the dose ramp-up phase, laboratory and clinical monitoring will be regularly performed to determine if TLS occur., From Day 1 of Cycle 0 to Day 28 of Cycle 0 (dose ramp-up phase)|MRD level detected by NGS IG sequencing, Peripheral blood MRD by NGS of immunoglobulin (IG) will be evaluated at C0D1, C4D1, C7D1, C10D1, and C16D1. NGS of IG for determining bone marrow MRD status will be performed at C0D1, C7D1, and C16D1. At the timepoints, the correlation between MRD by flow cytometry and NGS MRD will be evaluated., On Day 1 of Cycle 0, Day 1 of Cycle 4, Day 1 of Cycle 7, Day 1 of Cycle 10, and Day 1 of Cycle 16 (each cycle is 28 days)
This is an open-label, multicenter, phase 2, non-randomized study aiming to study the efficacy and safety of fixed-duration venetoclax consolidation in CLL patients who are on BTK inhibitor monotherapy. Patients who are on BTK inhibitor monotherapy for ≥ 6 months and still responsive are included. The study includes patients who are treatment-naive before taking BTK inhibitors. Patients will be treated with the BTK inhibitor plus full-dose venetoclax for 12 cycles after a standard 5-week dose ramp-up. Peripheral blood and bone marrow MRD status will be evaluated during and after the treatment. After the completion of combination therapy, patients will stop both BTK inhibitor and venetoclax and be followed.