LCI-LUN-ABR-001: Carbo With Nab-Paclitaxel in Patients With Advanced NSCL Cancer
ABRAXANE, based on results from prior studies, is a promising drug in squamous cell carcinoma of the lung. This study will help to explore the combination of ABRAXANE and carboplatin more thoroughly in the subgroup of patients who had the best response in prior studies as well as determine whether there are any biomarkers which can predict for response.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Abraxane
Number of Participants With a Response, The primary endpoint is a binary variable determined for each patient indicating whether or not they achieved a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) as per RECIST 1.1 (where a CR is indicated by disappearance of all target and non target lesions and a PR is indicated by \>= 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions with baseline as reference). Because overall response is the primary endpoint for this study, best responses of CR or PR must be confirmed by a subsequent radiologic assessment., Up to a planned 18 weeks
Number of Subjects With Stable Disease or Response, Disease control is calculated for each subject indicating whether or not they achieved an overall response of stable disease or better by RECIST 1.1 (where a CR is indicated by disappearance of all target and non target lesions, a PR is indicated by \>= 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions with baseline as reference, and SD is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient growth, \>=20%, to indicate progression)., 18 weeks|Progression Free Survival, PFS is defined as time from enrollment to time of progression or death. Disease progression (PD) may be determined objectively per RECIST 1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, where PD is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameters of target lesions, a measurable increase in non-target lesion, or appearance of new lesions) or subjectively as determined by investigator (with evidence documented in the medical records). If the subject died without documented PD, date of progression will be date of death. For surviving subjects who did not have documented PD, PFS was censored at last radiologic assessment. For subjects who received subsequent anti-cancer therapy prior to documented PD, PFS was censored at last radiologic assessment prior to commencement of subsequent therapy. Subjects who experienced a PFS event following an interval equal to two or more scheduled radiologic assessments were censored at last assessment prior to first missed assessment., From date of treatment start to date of progression/death, or censored as described above; assessed for approximately 3 years|Overall Survival, OS is defined as the duration of time from enrollment to the date of death from any cause. Subjects who were alive or lost to follow-up at the time of the analysis were censored at the last known date they were alive., From date of treatment start to date of death, or censored as described above; assessed for approximately 3 years|Duration of Response, For subjects who achieve a CR or PR, response duration will be measured from the first day of the response until the day on which progressive disease (PD) or death occurred. The censoring method will be the same as that described for PFS., From date of response to date of progression/death, or censored as described above; assessed for approximately 3 years.|Duration of Disease Control, For subjects who achieve SD or better, duration of disease control will be measured from the treatment start date until the day on which progressive disease (PD) or death occurred. The censoring method will be the same as that described for PFS., From date of treatment start to date of progression, or censored as described above; assessed for approximately 3 years
This is a single arm phase II study for subjects receiving first line therapy for metastatic squamous cell lung cancer. Following informed consent and eligibility check, all subjects will receive therapy with carboplatin and ABRAXANE on an outpatient basis. A total of 50 subjects will be enrolled over an enrollment period of about 24 months. Interim analyses will be conducted after the enrollment of subject 15, subject 30, and subject 45. Tissue biomarkers will be analyzed at baseline; and blood biomarkers will be analyzed at baseline, pre-dose on cycles 3 and 5, and then within 30 days of last dose of study treatment.