Interleukin-12 and Interleukin-2 in Treating Patients With Refractory or Recurrent Neuroblastoma
Phase I trial to compare the effectiveness of interleukin-12 with or without interleukin-2 in treating young patients who have refractory or recurrent neuroblastoma. Biological therapies use different ways to stimulate the immune system and stop cancer cells from growing. Combining interleukin-2 with interleukin-12 may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Neuroblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interleukin-12|BIOLOGICAL: aldesleukin
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC), 28 days
Overall response assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST), Up to 3 weeks
OBJECTIVES:

I. Define the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of interleukin-12 with or without interleukin-2 in patients with refractory or recurrent neuroblastoma.

II. Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor effect of interleukin-12 with or without interleukin-2 in these patients.

III. Evaluate the immunoregulatory activity of interleukin-12 with or without interleukin-2 in these patients.

IV. Evaluate the antiangiogenic activity of interleukin-12 with or without interleukin-2 in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment cohorts.

COHORT A: Patients receive interleukin-12 (IL-12) IV over 5-15 seconds on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, and 12.

COHORT B: Patients receive interleukin-2 (IL-2) IV over 15 minutes twice daily on days 1 and 8 and IL-12 IV as in cohort A.

Treatment in both cohorts repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Some patients may receive additional courses at the discretion of the principal investigator.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients in both cohorts receive escalating doses of IL-2 and IL-12 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Once the MTD is determined, an additional cohort of 8 patients receives IL-12 and IL-2 at the MTD.

Patients are followed at 3 weeks.