Marizomib Central Nervous System (CNS)
This research is being done to test whether the investigational drug marizomib is safe and effective when used in combination with standard of care drugs for the treatment of multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma|Multiple Myeloma in Relapse|Multiple Myeloma, Refractory
DRUG: Marizomib|DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) Safety Run-In, MTD is defined as the highest dose level where no patients (of the 6 treated) develop a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to 5 years|Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Toxicity summaries will be stratified by dose level, grade, and treatment attribution, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to 5 years|The number and proportion of adverse events, graded as defined by CTCAE version 5.0., CTCAE version 5.0., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to 5 years|Overall response rate (ORR), Assessed using the updated International Myeloma Working Group Response Criteria (IMWG) (Rajkumar 2011)., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to 5 years
Time to response (TTR), Assessed using the updated International Myeloma Working Group Response Criteria (IMWG) (Rajkumar 2011)., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to 5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Assessed using the updated International Myeloma Working Group Response Criteria, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first. up to 5 years|Duration of response (DOR), Assessed using the updated International Myeloma Working Group Response Criteria (IMWG) (Rajkumar 2011)., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Assessed using the updated International Myeloma Working Group Response Criteria, From date of enrollment until date of death from any cause, up to 5 years
This is a Phase 2 single-arm study, incorporating two cohorts and using the combination of marizomib plus pomalidomide and dexamethasone in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) patients and in RRMM patients with CNS involvement.

This research study involves a three drug chemotherapy regimen which includes taking the study drug marizomib, as well as pomalidomide and dexamethasone. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved marizomib as a treatment for any disease. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved pomalidomide and dexamethasone as a treatment option for multiple myeloma.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits. As the study is looking for the highest dose of the study drug that can be administered safely without severe or unmanageable side effects in participants that have multiple myeloma, not everyone who participates in this research study will receive the same dose of the study drug. The dose received will depend on the number of participants who have been previously enrolled in the study and how well participants have tolerated their doses. Participants will receive study treatment for as long as participants do not have serious side effects and their disease does not get worse.

It is expected that about 48 people will take part in this research study.

Bristol-Myers Squibb is supporting this research study by providing funding and study drug.