Leveraging Technology to Achieve Equity for Men With Prostate Cancer on Androgen Deprivation Therapy
This clinical trial studies a digital platform, the supportive therapy in androgen deprivation (STAND-T), in achieving equity for men undergoing treatment with androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer. STAND-T is a digital platform that provides prostate health information, evidence-based materials and resources. STAND-T may help improve health, address symptoms, and promote equity in men with prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: STAND-T platform|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Text Messages
Completion rate, The point estimation and 95% confidence interval (CI) of the percentage of participants who complete the 3-month study will be obtained overall and by race/ethnicity and geography., Up to 3 months
Participants reported satisfaction level, Satisfaction will be measured on a likert scale: Extremely Unsatisfied, Dissatisfied, Neither Satisfied or Dissatisfied, Satisfied, Extremely Satisfied. The point estimation and 95% CI of the percentage (95% CI) of participants who are satisfied or extremely satisfied with the program at 3 months will be obtained., Up to 3 months|Change in the proportion of men who were Extremely Satisfied/Satisfied, Satisfaction will be measured on a likert scale: Extremely Unsatisfied, Dissatisfied, Neither Satisfied or Dissatisfied, Satisfied, Extremely Satisfied. Change in the percentage (proportion) of men who were Extremely Satisfied/Satisfied from 7 days to 3 months will be reported., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess study feasibility of the STAND-T program at the Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center (HDFCCC) and Zuckerberg San Francisco General Hospital and Trauma Center (ZSFG) genitourinary (GU) medical, surgical, and radiation oncology practices.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To measure preliminary estimates of acceptability and usage of a digital platform, STAND-T.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe diet (e.g., fruit and vegetable intake), lifestyle (e.g., moderate to vigorous exercise, smoking status), clinical (symptoms e.g., fatigue), and health related quality of life (QoL) outcomes (e.g., sleep disturbance), physiologic measures (body mass index, BMI) at baseline and change in these metrics from baseline to 3 months post-intervention.

OUTLINE:

Patients review educational material and resources via online STAND-T platform. Patients also receive interactive text messages for 3 months.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 3 months.