Improving Social Cognition and Social Behaviour in Various Brain Disorders
Impairments in aspects of social cognition are disorder-transcending: these have been demonstrated in various neurological disorders, such as traumatic brain injury (TBI), stroke, brain tumours (both low grade glioma's and meningioma's) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Social cognition involves processing of social information, in particular the abilities to perceive social signals, understand others and respond appropriately (Adolphs 2001). Crucial aspects of social cognition are the recognition of facial expressions of emotions, perspective taking (also referred to as mentalizing or Theory of Mind), and empathy. Impairments in social cognition can have a large negative impact on self-care, communication, social and professional functioning, and thus on quality of life of patients.

Recently, a first multi-faceted treatment for social cognitive impairments in TBI was developed and evaluated; T-ScEmo (Training Social Cognition and Emotion). T-ScEmo turned out to be effective in reducing social cognitive symptoms and improving daily life social functioning in this particular group, with effects lasting over time (Westerhof-Evers et al, 2017, 2019).

Unfortunately, up till now there are no evidence based, transdiagnostic treatment possibilities available for these impeding social cognition impairments in neurological patient groups, other than TBI. Therefore the aim of the present study is to investigate whether T-ScEmo is effective for social cognition disorders in patients with different neurological impairments, such as stroke (including subarachnoidal haemorrhage (SAH)), brain tumours, MS, infection (meningitis, encephalitis) and other. The secondary objective is to determine which patient related factors are of influence on treatment effectiveness. In short, hopefully this study can contribute to a treatment possibility for social cognition disorders for all patients with various neurological disorders.

It is expected that T-ScEmo will be effective for various neurological disorders, based on previous research of Westerhof-Evers et al. (2017, 2019). Since social cognition disorders within patients with traumatic brain injury do all have the same ethiology it is expected that the treatment will show the same effects for patients with various neurological disorders. Therefore it is expected that patients will improve on social cognition, social participation and quality of life and social behaviour, that these results will last over time.
Stroke|Multiple Sclerosis|Brain Tumor
BEHAVIORAL: Treatment social cognition and emotion regulation (T-ScEmo)
Change in social behaviour examined by proxy, The main study parameter will be the difference between baseline (T0) and follow-up (T2) on Dysexecutive Questionnaire Social scales proxy version (DEX-Socproxy; Spikman et al., 2013; Westerhof-Evers, 2017). This scale is scored by the involved proxy of the patient (life partner, family member, friend) and measures the social aspects in daily life: 1) social convention, 2) behavioural-emotional selfregulation 3) metacognition. A higher outcome means more behavioural complaints., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months
Social cognition: Emotion recognition as assessed using the Eckman-60 faces test, Performance on neuropsychological test measuring emotion recognition; Eckman-60 faces test (EFT). This test has a range between 0 and 60. A higher outcome means a better performance., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Social cognition: Theory of Mind as assessed using the Happé cartoons test, Performance on neuropsychological test measuring Theory of Mind; Happé cartoons test. This test has a range between 0 and 36. A higher outcome means a better performance., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Social cognition: Theory of Mind as assessed using the Faux Pas test, Performance on neuropsychological test measuring Theory of Mind: Faux Pas test. This test has a range between 0 and 10. A higher outcome means a better performance., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Social cognition: assessed using the Hailing Sentence Completion Test, Performance on neuropsychological test measuring inhibition; Hailing Sentence Completion Test. This test has a range between 1 and 10. A higher outcome means a better performance., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Demographic information, Demographic information such as age, sex, educational level, will be obtained from medical records and anamnesis., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Self-rated social behaviour as assessed using the Dysexecutive questionnaire Social Scales., Self-reated social behaviour will be measured with a self rating on the Dysexecutive questionnaire Social Scales. Measuring the social aspects in daily life: 1) social convention, 2) behavioural-emotional selfregulation 3) metacognition. This scale has a range between 0 and 80. A higher outcome means more complaints., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Self-rated social behaviour as assessed using the Interpersonal Reactivity Index, Self-rated social behavior will be measured with the Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI). This scale has a range between 0 and 108. A higher outcome means less behavioural complaints., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Self-rated social behaviour as assessed using The Dutch version of the BAFQ social scales, Self-rated social behavior will be measured with The Dutch version of the BAFQ social scales (BAFQ-SOC). Moreover, patients answer if they have changed on that certain topic after brain damage. A higher outcome means less behavioural complaints and more change., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Proxy-rated social behaviour as assessed using the Interpersonal Reactivity Index, Proxy-rated social behavior will be measured with the Interpersonal Reactivity Index, proxy version (IRI). This scale has a range between 0 and 108. A higher outcome means less behavioural complaints., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Proxy-rated social behaviour as assessed using the Socioemotional Dysfunction Scale, Proxy-rated social behavior will be measured with the Socioemotional Dysfunction Scale (SDS). This scale has a range between 40 and 200. A higher outcome means more complaints., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Proxy-rated social behaviour as assessed using the Dutch version of the BAFQ social scales, Proxy-rated social behavior will be measured with the Dutch version of the BAFQ social scales, proxy version (BAFQ-SOC). Moreover, proxies answer if patients have changed on that certain topic after brain damage. A higher outcome means less behavioural complaints and more change., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Alexithymia, The presence of alexithymia will be measured with a self-rating on the Toronto Alexithymia Scale (TAS-20). This scale has a range between 20 and 100. A higher outcome means more complaints., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Life satisfaction, Quality of life will be determined with a self-rating on the Life Satisfaction Questionnaire (LSQ-9). This scale has a range between 6 and 54. A higher outcome means a higher subjective quality of life., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|(Social) participation as assessed using the Utrecht Scale for Evaluation of Rehabilitation, The level of societal participation will be measured with the scores on the Utrecht Scale for Evaluation of Rehabilitation (USER-P). A higher outcome means higher participation rate., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|(Social) participation as assessed using the Impact on Participation and Autonomy scale, The level of societal participation will be measured with the Impact on Participation and Autonomy (IPA). A higher outcome means lower participation rate., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Mood and anxiety, The level of mood and anxiety will be obtained with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). This scale has a range between 0 and 42. A higher outcome means more complaints., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Caregiving burden, The extend to which proxies experience a burden in taking care of the patient wil be measured with the Zarit burden interview. This scale has a range between 0 and 48. A higher outcome means more burden., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months|Goal attainment, The extent to which patients in the treatment condition improve on their set treatment goals will be measured with the Goal Attainment Scale (GAS). This scale has a range between 1 and 10. A higher outcome means better attainment., Through study completion, an average of 8 to 10 months
Executive functioning as assessed using the Controlled Oral Word Association Test, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Executive functioning will be measured with the Controlled Oral Word Association Test (COWAT)., Baseline|Executive functioning assessed using the Key Search Test, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Executive functioning will be measured with the Key Search Test of the Behavioural Assessment of the Dysexecutive Syndrome., Baseline|Verbal memory, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Verbal memory will be measured with Dutch version of the Rey Auditory Verbal Learning Test (15 Words Test)., Baseline|Working memory, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Working memory will be measured with the Digit Span Test of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale IV., Baseline|Language, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Language will be measured with the semantic fluency test., Baseline|Mental speed and attention as assessed using the Trail Making Test, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Mental speed and attention will be measured with the Trail Making Test (TMT)., Baseline|Mental speed and attention as assessed using the Symbol Digit Modalities Test, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Mental speed will be measured with the Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT)., Baseline|Premorbid intelligence, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Premorbid intelligence will be measured with Dutch version of the Adult Reading Test (NLV)., Baseline|Fatigue, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

The level of physical and mental fatigue will be measured with the Dutch Multifactor Fatigue Scale (DMFS).

This scale has a range between 38 and 190. A higher outcome means more complaints., Baseline|Health limitations, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Health related physical and practical limitations will be measured with the RAND-36 Health Survey.

A higher outcome means better functioning., Baseline|Coping, Only at baseline (T0), the following additional measures will be determined, allowing to control for factors that may interfere with treatment effects.

Coping will be measured with the Utrecht Coping List (UCL)

A higher outcome means a better fitting coping style., Baseline
Impairments in aspects of social cognition are disorder-transcending: these have been demonstrated in various neurological disorders, such as traumatic brain injury (TBI), stroke, brain tumours (both low grade glioma's and meningioma's) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Social cognition involves processing of social information, in particular the abilities to perceive social signals, understand others and respond appropriately (Adolphs 2001). Crucial aspects of social cognition are the recognition of facial expressions of emotions, perspective taking (also referred to as mentalizing or Theory of Mind), and empathy. Impairments in social cognition can have a large negative impact on self-care, communication, social and professional functioning, and thus on quality of life of patients.

Recently, a first multi-faceted treatment for social cognitive impairments in TBI was developed and evaluated; T-ScEmo (Training Social Cognition and Emotion). T-ScEmo turned out to be effective in reducing social cognitive symptoms and improving daily life social functioning in this particular group, with effects lasting over time (Westerhof-Evers et al, 2017, 2019).

Unfortunately, up till now there are no evidence based, transdiagnostic treatment possibilities available for these impeding social cognition impairments in neurological patient groups, other than TBI. Therefore the aim of the present study is to investigate whether T-ScEmo is effective for social cognition disorders in patients with different neurological impairments, such as stroke (including subarachnoidal haemorrhage (SAH)), brain tumours, MS, infection (meningitis, encephalitis) and other. The secondary objective is to determine which patient related factors are of influence on treatment effectiveness. In short, hopefully this study can contribute to a treatment possibility for social cognition disorders for all patients with various neurological disorders.

It is expected that T-ScEmo will be effective for various neurological disorders, based on previous research of Westerhof-Evers et al. (2017, 2019). Since social cognition disorders within patients with traumatic brain injury do all have the same ethiology it is expected that the treatment will show the same effects for patients with various neurological disorders. Therefore it is expected that patients will improve on social cognition, social participation and quality of life and social behaviour, that these results will last over time.