Safety, Pharmacokinetics and Efficacy of Paxalisib (GDC-0084) in Newly-diagnosed Glioblastoma
This protocol has a 2-part design:

This phase 2 study is an open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation and expansion study to assess the safety, tolerability, recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), pharmacokinetics (PK) and clinical activity of paxalisib in patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM) with unmethylated MGMT promoter status as adjuvant therapy following surgical resection and initial chemoradiation with temozolomide (TMZ).
Glioblastoma, Adult
DRUG: Paxalisib (GDC-0084)
Number of Participants Who Experienced Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A DLT was defined as a Grade 3 or 4 toxicity occurring within the DLT assessment window and assessed to be probably or possibly related to paxalisib. DLTs were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. CTCAE Grade 3 is a severe adverse event (AE) and Grade 4 is a life-threatening or disabling AE. DLTs were collected to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), which was defined as the dose level below the dose at which less than 33% of participants experienced a DLT., Cycle 1, Days 1-28
Incidence of Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), The toxicity assessments were made according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. A TEAE is any AE occurring or worsening on/after the first study drug dose and within 28 days after the last dose date. The number of participants with Grade 1 to 5 TEAEs are reported here. Specific Adverse Event terms are provided in the Adverse Event module, 24 months|Incidence of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An SAE is any AE that meets one or more of the following: results in death; is life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; is a congenital anomaly/birth defect; requires intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage. Specific AE terms are provided in the Adverse Event module, 24 months|Incidence of Treatment-emergent Grade 3/4 Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, Treatment emergent Adverse Events were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. CTCAE Grade 3 is a severe adverse event (AE) and Grade 4 is a life-threatening or disabling AE. Participants are counted at the highest grade TEAE that they experienced., 24 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced a Change in Electrocardiogram (ECG) Parameter QTc, A change in ECG parameter QTc was defined as an increase of QTc to a value ≥ 500 msec or a change from baseline of at least 60 msec., 24 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced a Change Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction, A change in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was defined as a reduction in LVEF to a value of ≤ 45% from baseline., 24 months|Progression-free Survival Interval Using Using mRANO Criteria/Investigator Review., Progression-free survival is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever comes first., 24 months|Overall Survival Using RANO Criteria., Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from the first day of study treatment until the date of death., 24 months
Pharmacokinetics of Paxalisib as Area Under the Curve From Time 0 to Last Measurable Time Point (AUC0-last) and/or Area Under the Curve From Time 0 to Infinity (AUC0-inf)., Blood samples were obtained and plasma concentrations were determined using a validated high-pressure liquid chromatography method. Samples were obtained: prior to the initial dose on Cycle 1 Day 1 and then at 30 minutes, and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 8 and 24 hours post dose., 24 hours|Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration of Paxalisib (Cmax), Blood samples were obtained and plasma concentrations were determined using a validated high-pressure liquid chromatography method. Samples were obtained: prior to the initial dose on Cycle 1 Day 1 and then at 30 minutes, and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 8 and 24 hours post dose., 24 hours|Pharmacokinetics of Paxalisib as Time to Reach Cmax (Tmax)., Blood samples were obtained and plasma concentrations were determined using a validated high-pressure liquid chromatography method. Samples were obtained: prior to the initial dose on Cycle 1 Day 1 and then at 30 minutes, and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 8 and 24 hours post dose., 24 hours|Change in FDG-PET Uptake in Response to Paxalisib in Patients With Measurable Disease., FDG-PET imaging was obtained using a stand-alone PET or combined PET/computed tomography (CT) scanner, or hybrid PET/MRI systems and the and mean FDG-PET standard uptake value quantified, Cycle 1, Day 3|Change in FDG-PET Uptake in Response to Paxalisib in Patients With Measurable Disease, FDG-PET imaging was obtained using a stand-alone PET or combined PET/computed tomography (CT) scanner, or hybrid PET/MRI systems and the and mean FDG-PET standard uptake value quantified, Cycle 1, Day 7|Disease Control Rate., Response to treatment was assessed by MRI using the response assessment in neuro-oncology (RANO) criteria based on the assessment of the MRI scan and clinical features. The DCR is defined as the proportion of patients achieving a confirmed best overall response of complete response (CR; disappearance of all enhancing disease, clinically stable/improved), partial response (PR; 50% or more decrease in measurable enhancing lesions, clinically stable/improved), or stable disease (SD, does not qualify for CR or PR, does not qualify for disease progression, clinically stable). To be assigned a status of CR, PR or SD patients need to have two consecutive assessments of CR, PR or SD. To be assigned a best overall response of SD patients must have a minimum duration of SD of at least 6 weeks., 24 months
Stage 1 Dose-Escalation and Maximum Tolerated Dose The dose-escalation portion of the study (Stage 1) will use a standard "3 + 3" design to determine the MTD for QD dosing.

Approximately 6 - 12 patients with newly diagnosed GBM will be enrolled in Stage 1.

The MTD for QD dosing will be determined. The initial dose level for QD dosing will be 60 mg (Dose Level 0). This dose is based on the phase 1 findings outlined in the rationale in the protocol, adding 1 dose level to test for a potential MTD increase.

Dose-escalation will occur in Stage 1:

* The initial dose (Dose Level 0) for QD MTD determination in Step 1 will be 60 mg. Dose levels will increase in 15 mg steps;
* The dose-escalation portion of the study (Stage 1) will use a standard "3 + 3" design to assess the safety, tolerability, and PK of paxalisib administered orally in 28-day cycles;

Decisions regarding dose-escalation and selection will be made by a Cohort Review Committee (CRC).

All AEs, including DLTs, will be reported, with severity assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03.

After determination of the MTD, patients continue to receive their protocol-assigned dose levels of paxalisib until progression of their disease or an unacceptable toxicity, whichever occurs first.

Stage 2 Expansion stage (2) of the study will be a two-arm, randomized, open-label expansion study to further characterize the safety, tolerability and PK of paxalisib as well as to provide a preliminary assessment of single-agent activity of paxalisib in patients with GBM. Approximately 20 patients will be enrolled in the expansion cohort in 2 treatment arms (10 per am) to examine the PK of paxalisib in fed and fasted-conditions, according to the defined study eligibility criteria.

Stage 2 of the study will be initiated with recruitment of new patients as soon as the MTD has been determined.

Patients enrolled in Stage 2 may continue the study at the dose allocated until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.