Web-based Oncofertility Support Tool for Reproductive-age Women With Breast Cancer
The aim of this study was to develop electronic systems (e-systems) for oncofertility support, and to examine the comprehensibility, feasibility, usability, and effects on social support and preparation for decision-making.
Breast Neoplasm Female|Fertility Preservation
DEVICE: Web-based oncofertility support tool
Degree of social support rated before and after using the web-based tool by patients, Social support was measured using a 16-item Likert-type questionnaire rating (from 0-3). Women of reproductive age were instructed to complete the social support questionnaire, assessing four dimensions of social support: emotional, informational, appraisal, and instrumental, before and after using the web-based tool., 4 months
Preparation for Decision Making (PrepDM) evaluated by patients and healthcare providers, Both patients and healthcare providers were instructed to evaluate the Preparation for Decision Making Scale by the Joint Commission of Taiwan. All participants were instructed to respond to 10 questions based on a five-point Likert scale rating (from 1-5). A higher score indicates a greater agreement with the effect., 4 months
Background: When reproductive-aged women with breast cancer lack support in making decisions about fertility, this results in conflicts in decision-making with negative effects on their mental health.

Objective: The aim of this study was to develop electronic systems (e-systems) for oncofertility support, and to examine the comprehensibility, feasibility, usability, and effects on social support and preparation for decision-making.

Methods: The study steps were guided, tested, and utilized to (a) identify the requirements of a patient, (b) guide the development of support interventions, and (c) evaluate the quality of web-based oncofertility support. Both qualitative and quantitative data were collected to explore supportive requirements related to oncofertility care, and an initial website concerning oncofertility was developed based on the resulting requirements and system review regarding social support. Alpha testing and beta testing were used to ensure the quality of the web-based oncofertility support tool. The effectiveness was evaluated using the Preparation for Decision-Making Scale and Social Support Questionnaire.