Abrogation of Chronic Monoclonal Antibody Treatment-induced T-cell Exhaustion With DURVALUMAB in Advanced HER-2 Negative Breast Cancer
This is a single-arm pilot proof of concept, open-label clinical trial. Twenty-five subjects will be enrolled in 6 sites.

Metastatic breast cancer patients with disease progression to bevacizumab maintenance treatment will be potential candidates.

Bevacizumab maintenance will be considered as six weeks of bevacizumab treatment in monotherapy, with hormonal treatment or combined with chemotherapy in the context of previous bevacizumab plus chemotherapy regimens.

When progression to bevacizumab maintenance treatment occurs, patients will enter the trial and will start receiving DURVALUMAB 10 mg/kg Q2W IV infusion plus bevacizumab 10mg/kg IV infusion every 2 weeks. The patients will undergo a tumor biopsy before the first dose of DURVALUMAB, and after one month of combined treatment - the blood sampling will continue on a monthly basis. The treatment will continue until disease progression.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Bevacizumab-alone Maintenance Treatment Progression
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Bevacizumab
To compare different peripheral blood mononuclear cells subpopulations at baseline or during treatment among patients showing benefit ro not from the combinations, Determine the immunodynamics changes from baseline in peripheral blood and in the tumor of combined administration of DURVALUMAB and the monoclonal antibody bevacizumab in advanced HER-2- negative breast cancer patients that have progressed to bevacizumab-based treatment. From baseline every 4 weeks throughout the study up to progression disease, throughout the study up to progression disease, an average of 1 year|To determine progression-free survival of the combination, Assessed by RECIST 1.1, up to 12 weeks|To determine overall survival, Overall survival rate by Kaplan-Meier Analysis, up to death
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Evaluate safety and toxicity of combination of both DURVALUMAB and bevacizumab, Throughout study completion, an average of 1 year
Acquired resistance against chronic administration of the monoclonal antibody antiangiogenic agent like bevacizumab in breast cancer is caused in a fraction of patients by an immune reprogramming. The immune reprogramming can be detected by elevated counts of Tregs in peripheral blood, aberrant pattern of cytokines, and elevated concentrations of kynurenine and immunosuppressive/vasodilator prostaglandins. The addition of DURVALUMAB to a bevacizumab-based treatment would delay or abrogate these changes and be of therapeutic interest in this scenario.