Topical/Oral Melatonin for Preventing Concurrent Radiochemotherapy Induced Oral Mucositis/Xerostomia Cancer Patients
The study evaluates the effect of melatonin for preventing concurrent radiochemotherapy induced oral mucositis and xerostomia and improving quality of life in head and neck cancer patients. This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trial conducted in head and neck cancer patients. Mixed-block randomization is used to divide eligible patients into two groups: melatonin 40 mg or matched placebo. The patients are required to take the studied drugs 20 mg suspensions before radiation and 20 mg capsules at night (after 21.00 pm) on the first night of radiation and continue for 7 weeks. Standard treatment is Radiation 2 Gy 5 fraction/week not more than 7 weeks with Cisplatin chemotherapy base regimen according to standard hospital protocol. Study endpoints are level of mucositis (CTCAE scale, WHO scale and MTS scores), level of xerostomia (CTCAE scale, VAS), QOL (FACT-H\&N), pain (VAS 0-10) and adverse event frequency.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Melatonin|DRUG: Matched Placebo
Percentage of occurrence of mucositis level 3 or more by using the criteria of CTCAE version 4.0, World Health Organization scale and MTSscores, Participants will be followed for severity of mucositis during the treatment period of 7 weeks, Time to event (occurence of mucositis level 3) during 7 weeks of treatment
Percentage of occurrence of xerostomia level 2 or more by using the criteria of CTCAE version 4.0 and the Visual Analogue Scale, Participants will be followed for severity of xerostomia during the treatment period of 7 weeks, Time to event (occurence of mucositis level 3) during 7 weeks of treatment|Quality of Life (FACT- H&N Version 4), Change from baseline in Trial Outcome Index scores at 7th week
The study evaluates the effect of melatonin for preventing concurrent radiochemotherapy induced oral mucositis and xerostomia and improving quality of life in head and neck cancer patients. This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trial conducted in head and neck cancer patients. Mixed-block randomization is used to divide eligible patients into two groups: melatonin 40 mg or matched placebo. The patients are required to take the studied drugs 20 mg suspensions before radiation and 20 mg capsules at night (after 21.00 pm) on the first night of radiation and continue for 7 weeks. Standard treatment is Radiation 2 Gy 5 fraction/week not more than 7 weeks with Cisplatin chemotherapy base regimen according to standard hospital protocol. Study endpoints are level of mucositis (CTCAE scale, WHO scale and MTS scores), level of xerostomia (CTCAE scale, VAS), QOL (FACT-H\&N), pain (VAS 0-10) and adverse event frequency.