Using Polyglycolic Acid Mesh Prevents Cerebrospinal Fluid Leakage
The papers propose a new method to prevent postoperative cerebrospinal fluid leakage. Doctors use the absorbable polyglycolic acid (PGA) and fibrin glue to repair in surgery, prevent cerebrospinal fluid leakage and reduce the necessity of postoperative lumbar drainage after surgery. This study will analyze the changes in cerebrospinal fluid leakage in patients with pituitary tumors and skull base tumors after surgery, and further understand the effectiveness of Neoveil , as the basis for the development of new treatments.
Pituitary Tumor|Cerebrospinal Fluid Leakage
DEVICE: polyglycolic acid(Neoveil)
Mesurement CSF leakage grade change after surgery, Confirmation of change in CSF leakage grafe after surgery, 6 months
Neoveil, the main component, is polyglycolic acid (PGA), which is a kind of absorbable material, and is made into a soft and tension non-woven material by special processing with good tissue compatibility and degradability. In the human body, its strength will gradually decrease due to hydrolysis, and will eventually be absorbed and metabolized. In the process of absorption, at first its strength is reduced, then the mass will gradually decrease, and it will be completely absorbed after about 15 weeks. At present, the United States, Europe, Australia, China and South Korea have been marketed, it is applied to the spine , pituitary tumors , skull base tumors and aneurysm surgery,etc. inthe related field of Neurosurgery in foreign countries. It can prevent the leakage of cerebrospinal fluid, and reduce the postoperative hospital stay and the probability of complications after surgery. There is a license from the TFDA. In clinical, it can be used in the sutures of parts or fragile organs that do not need to be healed for a long time, such as the lung, liver, and digestive tract, by suture (thick slice and tube type) or adhesion (Sheet) In the tissue, it can strengthen the compressive ability of the local tissue, prevent the suture thread from splitting the suture tissue, prevent the lung tissue from leaking, reduce the blood and fluid leakage from the surgical site, and reduce the postoperative hospital stay and after the operation The complication rate .