TransCon (TC) TLR7/8 Agonist, TC IL-2 β/γ, Pembrolizumab Prior to Surgery for Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of TransCon TLR7/8 Agonist, TransCon IL-2 β/γ, and pembrolizumab given prior to curative intent surgery in treatment of participants with newly diagnosed Stage III/IVA resectable locoregionally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (LA-HNSCC). After surgery, participants will receive local standard-of-care treatment and will be followed for safety, efficacy, and survival for up to 2 years.

This trial contains a safety run-in to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the two treatment arms: Arm A (TransCon TLR7/8 Agonist plus pembrolizumab) and Arm B (TransCon TLR7/8 Agonist plus TransCon IL-2 β/γ). The safety run-in will be followed by the randomized Phase 2, open-label part of the trial comparing the safety, efficacy and survival of treatment Arm A or Arm B compared to treatment Arm C (pembrolizumab monotherapy).
Head and Neck Neoplasms
DRUG: TransCon TLR7/8 Agonist|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: TransCon IL-2 β/γ
Major Pathological Response, The proportion of participants with a major pathological response (mPR) as assessed by the Central Pathologist at the time of definitive surgery. mPR is defined as ≤10% invasive squamous cell carcinoma within the resected primary tumor specimen and all the sampled regional lymph nodes., Up to 6 weeks after Cycle 2 (each cycle is 21 days)
Pathological Complete Response, A central pathology laboratory and local hospital pathologist will evaluate if all the tumor is completely gone from the primary tumor and all the lymph nodes that were removed at surgery., Up to 6 weeks after Cycle 2 (each cycle is 21 days)|Event Free Survival, The time from the date of randomization to the date of first record of any of the following events: disease progression; local or distant recurrence determined by radiology scans or tumor biopsy as needed, or death due to any cause., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, The time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to 5 years|Safety and Tolerability, Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs)., From time of signing of the ICF up to 100 (±7) days following the last dose of study drug
This is a randomized, Phase 2, open-label, multicenter trial of TransCon TLR7/8 Agonist in combination with pembrolizumab, TransCon TLR7/8 Agonist in combination with TransCon IL-2 β/γ, or pembrolizumab monotherapy as neoadjuvant therapy in participants with Stage III-IVA resectable LA-HNSCC.

This trial starts with a safety run-in of 12 participants, 6 participants each in Arms A (TransCon TLR7/8 Agonist plus pembrolizumab) and B (TransCon TLR7/8 Agonist plus TransCon IL-2 β/γ) randomized 1:1.

After completing the safety run-in, 80 participants will be randomized in a 2:2:1 ratio in 3 treatment Arms A, B or C (pembrolizumab monotherapy).

Once randomized, participants should begin treatment within 5 calendar days. Participants enrolled after the safety run-in, into the 2:2:1 randomization part of the trial, will be stratified as follows: oropharyngeal HPV p16 positive versus oropharyngeal HPV p16 negative or larynx/hypopharyngeal/oral cavity regardless of HPV p16 status. All participants should receive study drug(s) every 21 days (Q21D) for 2 cycles followed by curative-intent surgery. After surgery, participants may receive standard-of-care treatment in the adjuvant setting, as per investigator's decision and local guidelines.