Chemotherapy, Surgery, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Gastric Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and surgery may kill more tumor cells. E7296 was conducted to study neoadjuvant chemotherapy and postoperative chemoradiation therapy in patients diagnosed with high-risk gastric cancer using a new neoadjuvant regimen: paclitaxel plus cisplatin. It was hypothesized that this new neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by surgery and chemoradiation therapy would be well tolerated and would have a high curative resection rate.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: surgery|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Grade 3 or Higher Toxicity Incidence on Step 1, Incidence is defined as proportion of patients with any grade 3 or higher treatment-related toxicities among all treated patients., assessed at the end of every cycle (cycle=21 days) during treatment (3 cycles in total)
Best Confirmed Response to Neoadjuvant Therapy, Response was based on pathology at surgery. A patient achieved complete response if no gross or microscopic tumor were identified with the surgical specimen and nodal tissue. Stable response was defined as a response that did not qualify as complete response or progressive disease (PD), where PD indicated metastatic spread. Best confirmed response rate was defined as the proportion of patients with complete response (CR). A patient was considered unevaluable if the patient did not have surgery, the pathologist did not examine at least 15 lymph nodes, or the pathology report was unavailable., Assessed at surgery time (surgery performed during week 8-10 after registration to the study)|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from registration to death, where a subject was censored on date of last record alive., assessed every month for the first 3 months, every 3 months for the next 21 months, every 6 months for the next year, and annually thereafter up to year 10|Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as time from registration until progression, recurrence, or death, whichever occurred first. If date of death occurred beyond three months from the date of last disease assessment, then PFS was censored at date of last disease assessment. Patients who were alive and progression-free were censored at the date of last disease evaluation., assessed every month for the first 3 months, every 3 months for the next 21 months, every 6 months for the next year, and annually thereafter up to year 10
OBJECTIVES:

Primary objective: To evaluate the tolerability and toxicity of neoadjuvant cisplatin plus paclitaxel and postoperative chemoradiation therapy with fluorouracil plus leucovorin calcium in patients with high-risk gastric cancer.

Secondary objectives: To assess the pathologic response of gastric tumors to neoadjuvant cisplatin plus paclitaxel chemotherapy, and preliminarily assess the patterns of failure and disease free and overall survival.

OUTLINE: Patients receive 3 courses of preoperative neoadjuvant chemotherapy given on day 1 every 21 days. Courses consist of an intravenous infusion of cisplatin and a 3 hour intravenous infusion of paclitaxel on day 1. Patients then undergo surgery for tumor removal on day 63, followed 4-6 weeks later by one course of daily intravenous bolus leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil for 5 days. Chemotherapy is repeated 4-6 weeks later for the first 4 days of week 1 and the last 3 days of week 5 of radiation therapy given 5 days a week for 5 weeks. Patients receive two more courses, 4 weeks apart, of fluorouracil and leucovorin calcium for 5 days 4-6 weeks after completing radiation treatment. Patients are followed every month for the first 3 months, every 3 months for the next 21 months, every 6 months for the next year, and annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 30-42 patients will be accrued over 18 months.