Rehabilitation Through Hippotherapy for the Management of Women After Primary Treatment of Breast Cancer
Breast cancer is the most common women's cancer and the third leading cause of death. Advances in prevention, detection and primary treatment have improved overall survival leading to its growing acceptance as a long-term disease. Following the announcement of breast cancer, but also after primary treatment, some symptoms appear directly compromising psychic and physical spheres. Hippotherapy is an emerging specialized rehabilitation approach performed through specially trained horses by accredited health professionals. The proposed hippotherapy program offers key elements for physical, psychic and social reinforcement, complementing conventional care. The aim is to provide patients with tools to consolidate their self-awareness and thus strengthen their ability to cope with the disease.
Breast Cancer Female|Side Effects|Psychological Distress|Physical Disability
OTHER: Hippotherapy|OTHER: Conventional therapy
Change in Quality of life through EORTC QLQ-C30, This questionnaire was designed to be cancer specific, multidimensional in structure, suitable for self-administration (brief and easy to complete), and applicable in a wide range of cultural contexts. The scores ranges from 0 to 100, a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning., Before the beginning of the protocol; after the first 1-week session; at the end of the last session at 6 months
Changes in Body image representation through Body Image Scale (BIS), The questionnaire focuses on patients' emotional and behavioral experiences of their body image, resulting from cancer and treatment, including aspects of perceived physical appearance, body integrity, and seduction capacity. The total score ranges from 0 to 30. A higher score means a higher level of body image disturbance., Before the beginning of the protocol; after the first 1-week session; at the end of the last session at 6 months|Changes in Fatigue sensation through Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20), MFI seems to be one of the best questionnaires to provide a fatigue profile. Its psychometric properties have been studied in different populations and it is easy to administer. Score ranges from 0 to 100. Higher total scores correspond with more acute levels of fatigue., Before the beginning of the protocol; after the first 1-week session; at the end of the last session at 6 months|Changes in anxiety and depression through Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), This scale was constructed excluding any item concerning somatic aspects, aspects that could be confused between physical and mental illness. It is a self-questionnaire to be completed according to oneself condition during the past week. Score ranges from 0 to 21 for each item. Higher total scores correspond to presence of the respective state., Before the beginning of the protocol; after the first 1-week session; at the end of the last session at 6 months|Changes in the Cognitive sphere assessment through Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog), The questions are grouped into six cognitive domains (memory, verbal fluency, concentration, mental sharpness, resistance to interference, multitasking ability) and two sub-criteria (visibility of the disorder by the entourage, impact on the quality of life). 37-item ranging from 0 to 4 consist of four subscales. Higher scores represent better functioning., Before the beginning of the protocol; after the first 1-week session; at the end of the last session at 6 months
Following the announcement and evolution of breast cancer, but also in response to primary treatment, some symptoms appear to directly compromise the psychic and/or physical sphere of the individual. Current rehabilitation programs are not sufficiently oriented to solve most of these symptoms. Hippotherapy is an emerging specialized rehabilitation approach, performed on a specially trained horse by accredited health professionals (e.g. medical doctors, physical therapists, occupational therapists, psychomotricians, speech-language pathologists, clinical psychologists). The horse is an excellent collaborator in situations of physical and psychic disability, whether temporary or consolidated. It provides human support for impairments (anatomical or physiological), activity limitations, and participation restrictions as defined by WHO. Hippotherapy has a direct action on the sensorimotor capacities of the individual but also on his cognitive abilities, i.e. attention, memory, psychomotricity, emotion, perception, sequencing of complex movements, self-experience, psychic temporality. Overall, the strong solicitation of the sensory and motor spheres promotes and interacts with the mechanisms related to the execution of tasks in the cognitive domain through the interactions of several neural networks. A randomized simple-blinded controlled trial on hippotherapy versus conventional care will be carried out. After giving their informed consent, patients will be enrolled in the trial. The 6-months program includes 1-week daily sessions of hippotherapy by the end of the initial cancer treatment followed by three short 2-days sessions with an interval of 2 months between each. The study will focus on 86 patients. Recruitment will be done over a 48-months' period. A battery of self-administered questionnaires will allow to study both the functional and psychological outcome. The primary end point will be quality of life, whereas body image, fatigue, anxiety, depression and cognitive performances will be the secondary end points.