Pembrolizumab in Combination With Ibrutinib for Advanced, Refractory Colorectal Cancers
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability, describe the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) (or the highest protocol-defined dose level in the absence of establishing an MTD) of ibrutinib in combination with pembrolizumab in participants with advanced, refractory colorectal cancers.
Colon Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Carcinoma|Colon Disease
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Ibrutinib
Phase I - Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D), Standard 3+3 Design: The first cohort will enroll a minimum of 3 participants, according to a standard 3+3 design. If 0 out of the first 3 participants in the first cohort experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), then dose escalation will continue as planned. If 1 out of the first 3 participants experience a DLT, then the cohort will be expanded to a total of 6 participants, and if no more than 1 out of 6 participants experiences a DLT in a given dose cohort, dose escalation will continue as planned. If ≥ 2 DLTs are observed in the first dose cohort, the principle investigator will discuss with Janssen on how to proceed. The DLT evaluation period will be defined as the time from the first dose of pembrolizumab and ibrutinib to 42 days after the first dose or if a participant experiences a DLT within this time period., 42 days post first dose|Phase II - Disease Control Rate at 4 Months, Percentage of participants who achieved disease control at 4 months. Disease control rate = Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) + Stable Disease (SD). Tumor response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and RECIST based immune-related response criteria (irRC)., 4 months
On this study, one treatment cycle equals 21 days. On the first day of each study treatment cycle, 200 milligrams of pembrolizumab will be given through an IV (intravenously) for about thirty minutes. In addition, participants will begin taking the ibrutinib capsules every day starting on cycle 1, day 1. Participants will have a follow-up visit every 3 weeks, on about the first day of each cycle with laboratories drawn to make sure that the study drugs are not causing any side effects. In addition, participants will have a computed tomography (CT) scan every 6 to 7 weeks to determine whether your cancer is getting better or worse.