Physical Activity in Public Housing - II
The aims of the proposed study are to:

1. Examine how youth and their parents use and perceive three active living domains for physical activity (PA): schools, recreation, and transportation environment;
2. Identify patterns and predictors of environmental perceptions of physical activity;
3. Compare and contrast youth evaluations of physical activity resources with research team objective evaluations of physical activity resources;
4. Using above data, refine the conceptual framework of physical activity phenomena in low-income minority communities guiding this research and develop items for a quantitative survey measuring parental and youth environmental perceptions of physical activity for a future trial with this population.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Focus Group|BEHAVIORAL: Interview|OTHER: Photovoice Project
Parent/Child Perceptions of School, Recreational, + Transportation Environments among African American youth in Public Housing, 2 Years; Qualitative + Quantitative Data from In-depth Interviews and Focus Groups
Effects of public housing on physical activity., 2 Years
Cognitive Interview:

If you agree to take part in this study, you will have an interview to discuss the questions asked in the a physical activity survey. You will read the survey and be asked about what you thought when you read certain questions and how well you understood the questions.

The interview will be recorded with a tape recorder and the results will be written down. Your name will not be used during the interview and will not be recorded. You will only be identified by a number given to you by the study staff. After the interview comments are written down, the interview tape will be destroyed. The transcript will be stored in a safe locked compartment for 3 years, then it will be destroyed.

Length of Study:

You will be off study after the interview.

THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY.

Up to 8 children and 4 parents will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

Physical Activity in Public Housing II -- Parent:

If you agree to take part in this study, you will take part in an interview with a member of the study staff at your housing development site. During the interview, you will be asked if living in public housing has any effect on your options for physical activity and how you feel about your neighborhood. The interview will take about 45 minutes to complete.

The interview will be recorded with a tape recorder and the results will be written down. Your name will not be used during the interview and will not be recorded. You will only be identified by a number given to you by the study staff. After the interview comments are written down, the interview tape will be destroyed. The transcript will be stored in a safe locked compartment for 3 years, then it will be destroyed.

At the time of the interview, you will also be given a survey that will have questions about how you feel about your neighborhood, access to recreational facilities, physical activity, how the people around you feel about exercise, and sociodemographic information (such as age and sex). The survey will take about 20 minutes to complete.

Photovoice Project:

You may be randomly selected (as in the flip of a coin) to receive a letter asking you to participate in the Photovoice project. The Photovoice project is an activity that will allow you to express your thoughts and feelings about your neighborhood through pictures that you and your child will take of your neighborhood. You and your child will take pictures of your neighborhood with a camera provided to you by the study staff. The pictures will be developed by the study staff and they will bring them back to your house. You and your child will then participate in an interview to talk about the photographs you took. This interview will take about 20 minutes.

Length of Study:

If you are selected and choose to take part in the Photovoice project, you will be off study after the Photovoice interview. If you do not chose to take part in the Photovoice project, you will be off study after the survey.

THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY.

Up to 36 adult parents will take part in an individual interview. In total 36 parents and 36 youth will take part in this study for a total of 72 participants. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

Physical Activity in Public Housing II -- Youth:

If you agree to take part in this study, you will take part in a focus group. A focus group is a group of people who are asked questions about certain topics and then discuss these topics with other group members. During the focus group, you will talk about how living in public housing effects your physical activity and how you feel about your neighborhood. There will be 6 focus groups, each made up of 6 participants. The focus group session will take about 45 minutes.

The focus group session will be recorded with a tape recorder and the results will be written down. Your name will not be used during the interview and will not be recorded. You will only be identified by a number given to you by the study staff. After the interview comments are written down, the interview tape will be destroyed. The transcript will be stored in a safe locked compartment for 3 years, then it will be destroyed.

At the time of the focus group session, you will also be given a survey that will have questions about how you feel about your neighborhood, access to recreational facilities, physical activity, and how the people around you feel about exercise. The survey will take about 15 minutes to complete.

Photovoice Project:

You may be randomly selected (as in the flip of a coin) to receive a letter asking you to participate in the Photovoice project. The Photovoice project is an activity that will allow you to express your thoughts and feelings about your neighborhood through pictures that you and your parent will take of your neighborhood. You and your parent will take pictures of your neighborhood with a camera provided to you by the study staff. The pictures will be developed by the study staff and they will bring them back to your house. You and your parent will then participate in an interview to talk about the photographs you took. This interview will take about 20 minutes.

Length of Study:

If you are selected and choose to take part in the Photovoice project, you will be off study after the Photovoice interview. If you do not chose to take part in the Photovoice project, you will be off study after the survey.

THIS IS AN INVESTIGATIONAL STUDY.

Up to 36 youth will take part in a focus group. In total 36 parents and 36 youth will take part in this study for a total of 72 participants. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.