Adjuvant Post-radical Cystectomy Treatment for Bladder Cancer
Radical Cystectomy is still the standard treatment in muscle-invasive Bladder cancer. Local recurrence is still the major cause of failure together with distant metastasis. postoperative radiotherapy succeeded to decrease the local recurrence and hence improved the overall survival. Adjuvant chemotherapy has also improved the survival in different studies. This study is performed to test the efficacy and toxicity of adding the two modalities together compared to each modality alone.
Locally Advanced Bladder Cancer
RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: gemcitabine and cisplatin|OTHER: Radiotherapy and Drug
Comparison of the disease-free survival and overall survival of post-operative radiotherapy , adjuvant chemotherapy and the combined modalities [radiotherapy and chemotherapy] after radical cystectomy, Regular follow up is performed every 2 months in the first 2 years postcystectomy and every 6 months thereafter. Periodical CT pelvis is performed every 6 months in the first 2 years and yearly thereafter. The other appropriate radiological studies are performed in response to patients' symptoms and signs. Treatment side effects (immediate and late) are reported in each follow up visit., Five-year overall and disease-free survival.
comparison of the Local recurrence rate in the three Arms, Periodical CT pelvis is performed every 6 months in the first 2 years and yearly thereafter. The other appropriate radiological studies are performed in response to patients' symptoms and signs. Treatment side effects (immediate and late) are reported in each follow up visit., Five year local pelvic control rate
Radical Cystectomy is still the standard treatment in muscle-invasive Bladder cancer. Local recurrence is still the major cause of failure together with distant metastasis. postoperative radiotherapy succeeded to decrease the local recurrence and hence improved the overall survival. Adjuvant chemotherapy has also improved the survival in different studies. This study is performed to test the efficacy and toxicity of adding the two modalities together compared to each modality alone.