Decitabine, Venetoclax, and Ponatinib for the Treatment of Philadelphia Chromosome-Positive Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myeloid Blast Phase or Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well the combination of decitabine, venetoclax, and ponatinib work for the treatment of Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute myeloid leukemia or myeloid blast phase or accelerated phase chronic myelogenous leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy such as decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Venetoclax may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Ponatinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving decitabine, venetoclax, and ponatinib may help to control Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute myeloid leukemia or myeloid blast phase or accelerated phase chronic myelogenous leukemia.
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Blast Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive
DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Ponatinib|DRUG: Venetoclax
Overall response rate, Defined as the proportion of patients achieving complete remission (CR) + CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi) occurring at the end of 2 cycles of treatment. Will be estimated along with the 95% credible interval. Patients who drop out of the study before completing 2 cycles and have been treated will be censored for the primary endpoint analysis., End of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)
Rate of minimal residual disease negativity, Will be estimated along with the 95% credible interval., Up to 4.5 years|Proportion of patients proceeding to allogeneic stem cell transplant, Will be estimated along with the 95% credible interval., Up to 4.5 years|Relapse-free survival (RFS), The distribution of RFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests., From the date of treatment initiation to the date of documented treatment relapses from CR/CRi or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4.5 years|Overall survival (OS), The distribution of OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests., From treatment start till death or last follow-up, assessed up to 4.5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Safety data will be summarized by category, severity and frequency., Up to 4.5 years
Apoptotic protein expression and Bcl-2 dependency on response and resistance, The association between response and patient's clinical information such as apoptotic protein expression, etc. will be examined by Wilcoxon's rank sum test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate., Up to 4.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of the regimen, as defined by the rate of complete remission (CR) or CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine efficacy outcomes, including rate of minimal residual disease negativity by flow cytometry and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for BCR-ABL1 transcripts, median relapse-free survival, and median overall survival.

II. To determine the proportion of patients proceeding to allogeneic stem cell transplant (ASCT).

III. To preliminarily determine the safety of the combination regimen.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of single-agent ponatinib on apoptotic proteins and Bcl-2 dependency.

II. To correlate apoptotic protein expression and Bcl-2 dependency on response and resistance to the combination regimen.

OUTLINE:

Patients recently (within 2 weeks of anticipated start date) treated with ponatinib receive ponatinib orally (PO) daily on days 1-21 of cycle 1 and days 1-28 of subsequent cycles, venetoclax PO daily on days 1-21, and decitabine intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who have not been recently (within 2 weeks of anticipated start date) treated with ponatinib may receive ponatinib monotherapy PO daily on days 1-7 before starting combination therapy with venetoclax in cycle 1. After completion of ponatinib lead-in, patients will receive ponatinib PO daily on days 1-21 of cycle 1 and on days 1-28 of subsequent cycles, venetoclax PO daily on days 8-28 of cycle 1 and days 1-21 of subsequent cycles, and decitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 8-12 of cycle 1 and days 1-5 of subsequent cycles. For these patients, cycle 1 is 35 days in duration and cycles 2-24 repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days then every 6 months thereafter.