Randomized Trial of Primary Surgery Followed Selective Radiochemotherapy for Rectal Cancer With MRI Negative CRM
The purpose of this study is to determine whether primary radiotherapy can be omitted for the locally advanced rectal cancer with Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) negative circumferential margin.
Colorectal Neoplasm|Effects of Radiation Therapy|Effects of Chemotherapy|Surgery
PROCEDURE: Rectectomy|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Disease-free survival, Three years from the date of randomization
The rate of positive circumferential resection margin, 1 day of postoperative pathological examination.|Quality of life by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ)-C(core) 30 and QLQ-CR(colorectal) 29 forms, Baseline before any treatment,3 months post operation, 1 year post operation|Overall survival, Five years from the date of randomization
The preoperative radiochemotherapy with fluorouracil followed surgery is the standard therapy for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer. However, the necessity of radiotherapy has been questioned for a long time especially for patients with enough circumferential margins. Moreover, indiscriminate radiotherapy will result Irreversible ovarian dysfunction for female. In the past decade, there were two major progresses for colorectal cancer. Firstly, oxaliplatin with fluorouracil has become the standard adjuvant chemotherapy for advanced colon cancer. Oxaliplatin improved the survival of colon cancer patients than single fluorouracil. Our experience showed that oxaliplatin with fluorouracil could improve the prognosis of rectal cancer without radiotherapy. It has been proven that oxaliplatin should not add to radiotherapy for rectal cancer. However, whether oxaliplatin can replace radiotherapy for certain rectal cancer patients is still unknown. Secondly, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) has been proven that can predict the circumferential margin status for rectal cancer. Now, preoperative MRI scan can recognize the rectal cancer patients with low recurrence risk. The radiotherapy may be omitted to the patients with low recurrence risk. This study is a randomized controlled trial to compare the 3-year disease-free survival (DFS) differences of group of experiment (the patients receive primary surgery followed selective radiochemotherapy) and group of control (the patients receive indiscriminate preoperative radiochemotherapy followed surgery) for locally advanced rectal cancer with negative MRI circumferential margin.