CAPOX and PD-1 Antibody Combined With or Without Radiotherapy for MSS Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
TORCH-iTNT is a prospective, multicentre, randomized phase II trial. 198 LARC (T3-4/N+M0, distance from anal verge ≤12cm) patients will be treated with total neoadjuvant therapy (TNT) and assigned to Group A and Group B (1:1). Group A receives 6 cycles of Toripalimab combined with CAPOX (ToriCAPOX). Group B receives SCRT (25Gy/5Fx) followed by 6 cycles of ToriCAPOX. TME surgery is scheduled after TNT while a watch and wait (W\&W) option can be applied to patients achieving clinical complete response (cCR). The primary endpoint is complete response (CR, pathological complete response \[pCR\] plus cCR) rate. The secondary endpoints include the grade 3-4 acute adverse effects (AE) rate, anal preservation rate, 3-year DFS rate, etc.
Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer|Neoadjuvant Therapy
DRUG: PD-1 antibody|DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: Short-course radiotherapy
Complete response (CR) rate, Rate of complete response (CR), including the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) after surgery and the rate of cCR with W\&W strategy., 1 month after the surgery or the decision of W&W
Grade 3-4 adverse effects rate, Rate of chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy related adverse events, From date of randomization until 3 months after the completion neoadjuvant therapy|3 year anal preservation rate, 3 year anal preservation rate, From date of randomization until the date of or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|3 year disease free survival rate, Rate of 3 year disease free survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|3 year local recurrence free survival rate, Rate of 3 year local recurrence free survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented pelvic failure, assessed up to 36 months.|3 year overall survival rate, Rate of 3 year overall survival, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months.|Rate of surgical complications, Rate of surgical complications, such as intraoperative hemorrhage, anastomotic leakage, intestinal obstruction, etc., The surgical complications were assessed within 3 months after the surgery.
TORCH-iTNT is a prospective, multicentre, randomized phase II trial. 198 LARC (T3-4/N+M0, distance from anal verge ≤12cm) patients will be treated with total neoadjuvant therapy (TNT) and assigned to Group A and Group B (1:1). Group A receives 6 cycles of Toripalimab combined with CAPOX (ToriCAPOX). Group B receives SCRT (25Gy/5Fx) followed by 6 cycles of ToriCAPOX. TME surgery is scheduled after TNT while a watch and wait (W\&W) option can be applied to patients achieving clinical complete response (cCR). The primary endpoint is complete response (CR, pathological complete response \[pCR\] plus cCR) rate. The secondary endpoints include the grade 3-4 acute adverse effects (AE) rate, anal preservation rate, 3-year DFS rate, etc.