Preventive Effect of Celecoxib on Sorafenib-related Hand Foot Syndrome, a Single Center, Randomized Controlled Clinical Trail
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common fatal malignant tumor, although with the popularity of health examination, most patients were diagnosed as HCC in advanced stages so far. Sorafenib is currently recognized worldwide as the only effective treatment for advanced HCC. However, sorafenib need long-term medication, and will bring a series of side effects, including, hand, foot and comprehensive syndrome (Hand-foot syndrome, HFS) limbs swelling, rash, peeling, pain.Occurrence rate of HFS is about 21%-51%, which seriously affect patient's quality of life.Besides, this side effects appeared to be dose-related.When severe HFS happened, sorafenib need to reduce dosage or discontinue administration, which could seriously affect the patient's survival. Therefore, investigators designed this prospective randomized controlled study to explore preventive effect of celecoxib for sorafenib related HFS, the influence on the quality of life in patients with, and also the synergistic anti-tumor effect of celecoxib in combination with sorafenib on HCC. This study will explore horizon of improving treatment for sorafenib in patients with advanced HCC,quality of life and tumor control.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Celecoxib|DRUG: Sorafenib
Incidence of participants with clinically definite Sorafenib-related Hand Foot Syndrome, within the first 6 months after sorafenib administration
Overall survival, one year
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common fatal malignant tumor, although with the popularity of health examination, most patients were diagnosed as HCC in advanced stages so far. Sorafenib is currently recognized worldwide as the only effective treatment for advanced HCC. However, sorafenib need long-term medication, and will bring a series of side effects, including, hand, foot and comprehensive syndrome (Hand-foot syndrome, HFS) limbs swelling, rash, peeling, pain.Occurrence rate of HFS is about 21%-51%, which seriously affect patient's quality of life.Besides, this side effects appeared to be dose-related.When severe HFS happened, sorafenib need to reduce dosage or discontinue administration, which could seriously affect the patient's survival. Therefore, investigators designed this prospective randomized controlled study to explore preventive effect of celecoxib for sorafenib related HFS, the influence on the quality of life in patients with, and also the synergistic anti-tumor effect of celecoxib in combination with sorafenib on HCC. This study will explore horizon of improving treatment for sorafenib in patients with advanced HCC,quality of life and tumor control.