Treating Young Patients With Newly Diagnosed, Low Stage, Lymphocyte Predominant Hodgkin Disease
This clinical trial is studying how well surgery and/or combination chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy or observation only work in treating young patients with newly diagnosed stage I or stage II lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin disease (LPHD). Surgery may be an effective treatment for LPHD. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill cancer cells. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) with or without radiation therapy may kill more cancer cells.
Ann Arbor Stage I Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Childhood Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant B-Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Conventional Surgery|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Prednisone|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Failure-free Survival (FFS), The time to a treatment (strategy) failure, where failure includes one of the following occurrences as a first event: disseminated disease (\> Stage I/II) progression or recurrence at any time, local disease progression or recurrence anytime during or after treatment with AV-PC +/- IFRT, occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm, death from any cause., At 5 years
Event-free Survival, Failure includes one of the following occurrences as a first event: relapse/progression or second malignancy from enrollment., At 5 years|Cure by Surgery Alone in Stage I Resected Patients, To estimate the proportion of Stage I patients (with a single involved lymph node that is totally resected) who can be cured with surgery alone., At 2 years|Cure by AV-PC x 3 or AV-PC x 3 + IFRT for Stage I Unresected, Stage I Resected Whose Disease Recurred, and Stage II Patients, To estimate the proportions of Stage I unresected, Stage I resected (whose disease has recurred after observation), and Stage II LPHD patients who can be cured with AV-PC x 3, with IFRT for those who are not in a CR after chemotherapy., At 5 years|Grade 3 or 4 Toxicity, Any time during chemoradiotherapy, up to the end of 3-cycles of AV-PC induction. Each cycle is 21 days.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To preserve the excellent cure rate in patients with lymphocyte predominant Hodgkin disease (LPHD) while employing a treatment strategy that minimizes the exposure to chemotherapy and radiation therapy in appropriate patients.

II. To estimate the proportion of stage I patients (with a single involved lymph node that is totally resected) who can be cured with surgery alone.

III. To estimate the proportions of stage I unresected, stage I resected (whose disease has recurred after observation), and stage II LPHD patients who can be cured with adriamycin (doxorubicin)/vincristine/prednisone/cyclophosphamide (AV-PC) x 3, with involved field radiation therapy (IFRT) for those who are not in a CR after chemotherapy.

IV. To reduce the potential for long-term toxicity of LPHD treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

Patients with stage IA disease who underwent confirmed complete resection of a single involved lymph node at diagnosis undergo observation only\*.

Patients with stage IA disease who underwent possible complete resection of a single involved lymph node at diagnosis undergo imaging at 6-7 weeks after surgery. Patients with a confirmed complete resection by imaging undergo observation only\*. Patients who do not demonstrate complete resection by imaging proceed to combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy.

Patients with stage IA disease who underwent a fine needle aspiration of a single involved lymph node OR an incomplete resection of a single involved lymph node at diagnosis may undergo a second surgery to achieve complete resection. Patients who undergo complete resection during the second surgery undergo imaging at 6-7 weeks after surgery. Patients with a confirmed complete resection by imaging undergo observation only\*. Patients who do not undergo a second surgery OR do not achieve complete resection with the second surgery proceed to combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy. Patients with stage IA disease with involvement of more than 1 lymph node OR stage IIA disease proceed directly to combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy.

NOTE: \*Patients with recurrent disease after observation only undergo biopsy and restaging and then proceed to combination chemotherapy with or without radiotherapy. (AS OF AMENDMENT #4, THE TREATMENT ARM FOR PATIENTS WHOSE CANCER RECURRED AFTER OBSERVATION ALONE IS NOW CLOSED)

COMBINATION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 10-30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 1, vincristine IV over 1 minute on days 1 and 8, and prednisone orally (PO) or IV two or three times daily on days 1-7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve complete response (CR) after 3 courses of therapy proceed to follow-up. Patients who do not achieve a CR proceed to involved-field radiotherapy.

INVOLVED-FIELD RADIOTHERAPY (IFRT): Beginning within 3 weeks after completion of combination chemotherapy, patients undergo IFRT once daily, 5 days a week for 2.8 weeks (14 treatments).

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, annually for 5 years, and then every 5 years for 10 years.