Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Operable Premenopausal Breast Cancer Patients
The current study is a multicentre, randomized, open (unblended), prospective clinical trial which is sponsored by the researchers. The trial is designed to compare the effectiveness between docetaxel plus epirubicin, and docetaxel plus epirubicin plus cyclophosphamide as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for operable premenopausal breast cancer patients, and also to compare the outcomes associated with chemo-induced amenorrhea between the two neoadjuvant chemotherapies. The investigators will randomly assign 600 premenopausal female patients with operable breast cancer to receive four cycles of docetaxel and epirubicin (TE); or four cycles of docetaxel, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (TEC). After every two cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, the investigators will estimate the effectiveness of therapy. Patients will undergo modified radical mastectomy or breast-conserving surgery after four cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and then receive postoperative chemotherapy (two cycles), radiation therapy, herceptin targeted therapy or hormone therapy according to the NCCN (2011) guideline. The follow-up will be ten years after surgeries. The primary aim is to examine whether the docetaxel and epirubicin (TE) will be as effective as the docetaxel, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (TEC) (pCR rate, cCR rate, PR rate, SD rate, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)). The secondary aim is to correlate chemo (TE/TEC)-induced amenorrhea with outcomes in premenopausal women.
Breast Cancer Nos Premenopausal
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: epirubicin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|PROCEDURE: Modified radical mastectomy or breast-conserving Surgery|DRUG: Docetaxel (post-operative)|DRUG: Epirubicin (post-operative)|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide (post-operative)|RADIATION: Radiation therapy|DRUG: Herceptin （post-operative)|DRUG: Tamoxifen (post-operative)
Progression-free survival of patients., within 10 years after diagnosis|Overall survival of the patients, within 10 years after diagnosis
The pathological remission rate of patients after neoadjuvant chemotherapy., within 80 days after diagnosis (after 4 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy)|The clinical remission rate of patients after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, within 80 days after diagnosis (after 4 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy)
The current study is a multicentre, randomized, open (unblended), prospective clinical trial which is sponsored by the researchers. The trial is designed to compare the effectiveness between docetaxel plus epirubicin, and docetaxel plus epirubicin plus cyclophosphamide as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for operable premenopausal breast cancer patients, and also to compare the outcomes associated with chemo-induced amenorrhea between the two neoadjuvant chemotherapies. The investigators will randomly assign 600 premenopausal female patients with operable breast cancer to receive four cycles of docetaxel and epirubicin (TE); or four cycles of docetaxel, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (TEC). After every two cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, the investigators will estimate the effectiveness of therapy. Patients will undergo modified radical mastectomy or breast-conserving surgery after four cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and then receive postoperative chemotherapy (two cycles), radiation therapy, herceptin targeted therapy or hormone therapy according to the NCCN (2011) guideline. The follow-up will be ten years after surgeries. The primary aim is to examine whether the docetaxel and epirubicin (TE) will be as effective as the docetaxel, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (TEC) (pCR rate, cCR rate, PR rate, SD rate, progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS)). The secondary aim is to correlate chemo (TE/TEC)-induced amenorrhea with outcomes in premenopausal women.