Assessing the Clinical Benefit of Molecular Profiling in Patients With Solid Tumors
Many patients are treated for advanced cancer without knowledge of underlying molecular features that might indicate FDA approved therapies or potential eligibility for biomarker-selected clinical trials.

The Strata Trial (STR-001-001) has been initiated by Strata Oncology to evaluate the clinical benefit of systematic comprehensive genomic profiling for participants with advanced cancer using real-world data and endpoints, while assessing the proportion of participants available for clinical trials and approved targeted therapies in advanced and/or aggressive cancers. The Strata Trial uses surplus, or leftover, tumor specimens for molecular profiling and does not require additional study-specific procedures.
Cancer|Adult Solid Tumor|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma
Time to Treatment Discontinuation (TTD), To evaluate TTD for participants who received an anticancer biomarker-guided therapy and, when available, as compared to prior TTD from prior anti-cancer therapy, 3 years|Time to Next Treatment (TTNT), To evaluate TTNT for participants who received and anticancer biomarker guided therapy and, when available, as compared to prior TTNT from prior anti-cancer therapy, 3 years
biomarker profiles indicative of potential clinical benefit and affiliate trial enrollment, To evaluate the proportion of participants with actionable genomic profiles that indicate a potential clinical benefit from standard of care biomarker-guided therapies or a clinical trial, and the proportion of participants who enroll on a clinical trial., 3 years|Correlation between real world endpoints and overall survival endpoint, To assess the correlation between real world endpoints and overall survival endpoint, 3 years
Participants enrolled on the Strata Trial will submit surplus, clinical formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor specimens for molecular profiling and a test report will be provided back to the investigator. For those participants identified as having molecular alterations associated with a Strata-affiliated therapeutic clinical trial and/or approved targeted therapy or trials, the Strata reports will provide additional relevant information.

All molecular profiling will be performed in the Strata Oncology CAP-accredited and CLIA-certified laboratory (Ann Arbor, MI). The molecular profiling assays will include tumor-only comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) by next generation sequencing (NGS) of DNA and RNA covering a range of actionable genomic alterations, such as mutations (e.g. those in EGFR and BRAF), copy number alterations (e.g. ERBB2 amplifications), gene expression, gene fusions (e.g. ALK fusions), tumor mutation burden (TMB) and microsatellite instability status, and may include additional integrative DNA and RNA tests over time.

Participants may be followed for treatment changes and survival for three years from the time of enrollment and/or signed informed consent.

Participants may also be eligible for the Strata Trial Sub-Study at applicable Strata Trial sites. This sub-study is a sample collection study to support the development and evaluation of biomarker assays for patients with solid tumors.