Effect of Obesity on Surgical Outcomes and Survival for Gastric Cancer
As the number of obesity continues to increase, surgical oncologist pay more attention to the effect of obesity on surgical outcomes and survival of digestive systemin cancers. Body mass index(BMI) is one of the most widely used measurements of obesity. Abdominal fat area (AFA) calculated by computed tomography is popular because of its validity of fat distribution. There is still no consensus which of BMI and AFA could be the more effective measurement and more accurate to evaluate effect of obesity on surgical outcomes and survival. Gastric cancer is one of the most common digestive system cancers, and gastrectomy is the primary therapeutic options.It is important to compare the different measurements(BMI or AFA) to assess obesity and effect on surgical outcome and survival for gastric cancer patients.
Obesity|Gastric Cancer
DEVICE: AFA group (successive patients)|OTHER: BMI group (successive patients)
postoperative complications, The criteria of postoperative complications in the BMI group and AFA group both adopt the definition of The clavian-dildo classification of surgical complications: five-year experience. Ann Surg. 2009;250 (2):187-96.Postoperative complications in Grade 1 were classified as minor complications, while complications in Grade 2 to 5 were classified as major complications., 30-day of postoperative duration
Change of the postoperative BMI, The body weight(kilograms) and height(meters) change of all enrollment after 5-year postoperative duration were measured to get the change of BMI.The formula for BMI is weight in kilograms divided by height in meters squared (kg/m2). The change of BMI was compared between preoperation and 5-year postoperative duration., 5-year of postoperative duration.|Change of the postoperative AFA, AFA of all enrollment after 5-year postoperative duration were measured by CT. The AFA at the umbilical level was measured using a CT scanner (sango Mount Monitor Wireless Panel; Siemens , Munich, Germany) while the examinee was in a supine position and estimated using a Volume software (fat Pointer; Siemens , Munich, Germany). The imaging conditions were 120 kilovolt and 50 milliampere, using a 5-mm-thick slice. The areas covered by visceral fat software calculated from pixels with densities ranging from-190 to -30 hounsfield unit. The change of AFA was compared between preoperation and 5-year postoperative duration., 5-year of postoperative duration
Standard operation procedure（SOP）

1. Preoperative evaluation Patients satisfied with inclusion/exclusion criteria will be informed to join in the clinical study and signature the inform consent.
2. Procedures: The surgical treatments is adopted total or subtotal gastrectomy according to the Japanese Gastric Cancer treatments guidelines, 2010, Version 3.
3. Postoperative recovery: Postoperative recovery period need to collect those relevant parameters of all the patients. All the relevant parameters had definitely definition in the Case Report Form of this study which included the preoperative, intraoperative and postoperative clinicopathologic characteristics.
4. Follow-up: Follow-up will last to 5-year of the postoperative period. The postoperative complications is graded by the clavian-dildo classification. The postoperative complications and quality of life (change of AFA,performance status, recurrence and overall survival)are the focus of this study.