Cytarabine in Combination With Arsenic Trioxide vs. Cytarabine Alone in Elderly Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
The primary objective of this study is to determine whether low-dose cytarabine in combination with arsenic trioxide is more effective than low-dose cytarabine alone in achieving complete remission in elderly patients (≥60 years of age) with acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Arsenic trioxide|DRUG: Low-dose cytarabine alone
Percentage of Participants in Complete Remission (CR), The primary efficacy variable was the percentage of subjects in each treatment group who achieved complete remission after treatment with study drug. Complete remission was defined as: 1) Less than 5% blasts in normocellular bone marrow sample. 2) No blasts in bone marrow sample containing Auer rods. 3)Clearance of previous extramedullary disease. 4)Normal values for absolute neutrophil count (at least 1000/microliter), platelet count (at least 100,000/microliter), without platelet transfusions, and in absence of peripheral myeloblasts., From baseline through Day 70. Assessments were performed on Day 21 in cycle 1, no later than Day 56 of cycle 1 or 2 (if applicable), and no later than Day 70 of cycle 1 or 2 (if applicable) or at any other time at the discretion of the investigator
Number of Participants Who Died or Were Censored by 24 Months, This measure (time to death or censor) was defined for all enrolled subjects from the date of randomization until death from any cause. If a subject was not known to have died by the end of the followup period, observation of overall survival was censored on the date the patient was last known to be alive. The number of participants who died or were censored is presented here. (Note: all subjects participating in this study had either died or were censored by 24 months.), From Baseline through 24 months following Baseline|Proportion of Participants With Relapse-Free Survival (RFS)Using the Kaplan-Meier Estimate, RFS is defined for patients who achieved a complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp), or partial remission(PR), and was measured from the date of attaining CR, CRp, or PR until the date of AML relapse or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. For a patient not known to have relapsed or died by the end of the study followup, observation of relapse free survival was censored on the date of the last followup examination. The Kaplan Meier Estimate of relapse-free survival at Month 3 and Month 6 is presented here., From Baseline (randomization) through 24 months following Baseline|Number of Participants Who Experienced Early Death, Early death is defined as death from any cause within the first 14 days after start of study drug treatment. The number of patients in each study group who experienced early death is presented here., 14 days from start of study drug treatment|Number of Participants Who Experienced Induction (Thirty-Day) Mortality, The number of subjects who died from any cause within the first 30 days after the start of study drug treatment is presented here., Up to 30 days following start of study drug treatment|Proportion of Participants Surviving at 6 Months and 12 Months Using the Kaplan Meier Estimate, The duration of overall survival was defined for all patients and was measured from the date of randomization until death from any cause. For a patient who was not known to have died by the end of the follow-up period, observation of overall survival was censored on the date the patient was last known to be alive. The estimate of likelihood of survival at 6 and 12 months after Baseline using the Kaplan Meier Estimate is presented here., Baseline through 12 months
The primary objective of this study is to determine whether low-dose cytarabine in combination with arsenic trioxide is more effective than low-dose cytarabine alone in achieving complete remission in elderly patients (≥60 years of age) with acute myeloid leukemia.