Lenalidomide and Paclitaxel in Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a dose finding, open-label, uncontrolled, dose-escalation trial to determine the maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of the combination of CC-5013 (Lenalidomide)and paclitaxel in patients with advanced solid tumors.

Other purposes of the study are:

1. Define the safety profile of the CC-5013 and paclitaxel given in combination
2. Define the pharmacokinetics of CC-5013 and paclitaxel given in combination
3. Define the pharmacodynamic effects of the combination by monitoring potential biomarkers of the different biological activities of each component of the regimen
4. Define the optimal biological dose (OBD) and the dose recommended (RD) for phase II studies in selected tumor types (breast, ovary, prostate, NSCLC)
5. Collect evidence of antitumor activity in selected tumor types
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: Lenalidomide (CC-5013)
Define the MTD of the combination of CC-5013 and paclitaxel in patients with advanced solid tumors, Number of Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), 4 weeks after the first drug administration
Safety profile of the drug combination, Physical examination, laboratory and instrumental assessments and AE type and frequency, from the first administration to 30 days after the trial end|Pharmacokinetics of CC-5013 and paclitaxel given in combination, CC-5013 and paclitaxel plasma concentration, untill 4 weeks after the first drug administration|the pharmacodynamic effects of CC-5013 and paclitaxel given in combination, Increase (%) in selected serum cytokines (IL2, IL6, IL10, IL12, TNFα, γIF and TGFβ).

T-cell phenotyping:

* T-cell markers (CD4/CD45RA/CCR7/CD3,CD8/CD45RA/CCR7/CD3)
* Treg markers: CD4/CD25/FoxP3
* NKcells: CD16+/CD56+, from the first drug administration to 30 days after trial end|Evidence of antitumor activity in selected tumor types, Response Rate according to RECIST criteria, From the first drug administration to 30 days after the trial end
The new immunomodulatory drugs (IMiD) derivatives of thalidomide (CC-5013 lenalidomide and CC4047 pomalidomide) are endowed of direct antitumor activity besides the indirect effects attributed to antiangiogenic, antiinflammatory and T-cell co-stimulatory properties.

Combination therapy with cytotoxic agents or other anticancer drugs could lead to additive or synergistic interactions and support their clinical development in tumor types in which the specific activities of IMiDs could be of potential value.

Combinations with weekly paclitaxel could be of interest because of its antiangiogenic activity, antitumor activity in prostate, NSCLC, ovary, breast cancer, tumor types in which IMiD could be of clinical value because of either enhancement of tumor specific immunity (ovary, prostate) or inhibition of Treg function (breast, NSCLC, ovary).