Tumor Recurrence After Abdominal-perineal Amputation in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Anus
Squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal is a rare cancer with an increasing incidence. It represents 2.5% of digestive cancers and occurs more frequently in immunocompromised persons, in particular HIV positive. It is a cancer that develops essentially locally, with only 5% of metastases at diagnosis. The reference treatment for forms deemed localized after clinico-bio-radiological pre-therapeutic evaluation is radiochemotherapy allowing a 5-year survival rate of about 80%. However, up to 30% of patients fail radiochemotherapy. Failure is defined as persistent disease (non response or progression in 10 to 15% of patients) or relapse (local or metastatic in 10 to 15% of patients). Salvage surgery by abdominoperineal amputation is indicated in this case after elimination of the metastatic character with an overall survival rate at 5 years varying from 23 to 69%. This complex and cumbersome surgery is burdened with significant postoperative morbidity with alteration of the quality of life. Investigators would like to perform a retrospective and prospective study in the Paris Saint-Joseph hospital group to evaluate the interest of abdominoperineal amputation in case of failure of radiochemotherapy in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Anal Canal
Recurrence-free survival after abdominal-perineal amputation in case of failure of radiochemotherapy, This outcome corresponds to the Recurrence-free survival (local, metastatic) after abdominal and perineal amputation in case of failure of radio chemotherapy., Week 26
Overall survival after abdominal-perineal amputation, This outcome corresponds to the number of death., Year 2
Squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal is a rare cancer with an increasing incidence. It represents 2.5% of digestive cancers and occurs more frequently in immunocompromised persons, in particular HIV positive. It is a cancer that develops essentially locally, with only 5% of metastases at diagnosis. The reference treatment for forms deemed localized after clinico-bio-radiological pre-therapeutic evaluation is radiochemotherapy allowing a 5-year survival rate of about 80%. However, up to 30% of patients fail radiochemotherapy. Failure is defined as persistent disease (non response or progression in 10 to 15% of patients) or relapse (local or metastatic in 10 to 15% of patients). Salvage surgery by abdominoperineal amputation is indicated in this case after elimination of the metastatic character with an overall survival rate at 5 years varying from 23 to 69%. This complex and cumbersome surgery is burdened with significant postoperative morbidity with alteration of the quality of life. Investigators would like to perform a retrospective and prospective study in the Paris Saint-Joseph hospital group to evaluate the interest of abdominoperineal amputation in case of failure of radiochemotherapy in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the anal canal.