COVID-19 Infection in Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Since December 2019, a new disease named COVID-19 linked to a new coronavirus, SARS-CoV2 has emerged in China in the city of Wuhan, Hubei province, spreading very quickly to all 5 continents, and responsible for a pandemic. France is the third most affected country in Europe after Italy and Spain. Groups of patients at a higher risk of developing a severe form of COVID-19 have been defined: this include patients with immunosuppressive disease as cancer or patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver. Coronavirus liver injury had been described with SARS-CoV 1 and MERS-CoV. There is no data on liver damage associated with COVID-19 infection for compensated or decompensated cirrhotic patients. The objectives of this project are to estimate the incidence of COVID-19 in hepatocellular carcinoma population, both hospital and ambulatory, and to study the impact on the frequency of severe forms, the prognosis, but also liver function, and the management of hepatocellular carcinoma, in this context of pandemic
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|COVID-19
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: nasopharyngeal Covid 19 RT-PCR
Incidence of COVID-19 infection in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma in France, Incidence of COVID-19 infection in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma in France, 6 months
Since December 2019, a new disease named COVID-19 linked to a new coronavirus, SARS-CoV2 has emerged in China in the city of Wuhan, Hubei province, spreading very quickly to all 5 continents, and responsible for a pandemic. France is the third most affected country in Europe after Italy and Spain. Groups of patients at a higher risk of developing a severe form of COVID-19 have been defined: this include patients with immunosuppressive disease as cancer or patients with advanced cirrhosis of the liver. Coronavirus liver injury had been described with SARS-CoV 1 and MERS-CoV. There is no data on liver damage associated with COVID-19 infection for compensated or decompensated cirrhotic patients. The objectives of this project are to estimate the incidence of COVID-19 in hepatocellular carcinoma population, both hospital and ambulatory, and to study the impact on the frequency of severe forms, the prognosis, but also liver function, and the management of hepatocellular carcinoma, in this context of pandemic