Uproleselan, Azacitidine, and Venetoclax for the Treatment of Treatment Naive Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial evaluates the side effects of uproleselan, azacitidine, and venetoclax in treating older or unfit patients with treatment naive acute myeloid leukemia. Uproleselan may help block the formation of growths that may become cancer. Chemotherapy drugs, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Venetoclax may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Giving uproleselan with azacitidine and venetoclax may help kill more cancer cells.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Uproleselan|DRUG: Venetoclax
Incidence of adverse events, Defined and graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 toxicity criteria., Up to 30 days|Recommended phase II dose, Defined as the highest uproleselan dose level tested in which \< 33% of patients experienced a dose limiting toxicity., Up to end of cycle 1 (1 cycle = 28 days)
Rate of multiparameter flow cytometry (MFC) measurable/minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete remission (CR) plus CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi), Will be summarized using means, medians, and percentiles for continuous variables and percentages for categorical variables and associated exact 95% confidence intervals will be constructed. Comparisons between subsets of study participants will be conducted using exact tests., Up to 3 years|Rate of CR plus CR with partial count recovery (CRh), Will be summarized using means, medians, and percentiles for continuous variables and percentages for categorical variables and associated exact 95% confidence intervals will be constructed. Comparisons between subsets of study participants will be conducted using exact tests., Up to 3 years|Overall response rate (ORR), Defined as the rate of CR plus CRi and rate of CR plus CR with partial count recovery (CRh). Will be summarized using means, medians, and percentiles for continuous variables and percentages for categorical variables and associated exact 95% confidence intervals will be constructed. Comparisons between subsets of study participants will be conducted using exact tests., Up to 3 years|Rate of transfusion-independence (TI), Will be summarized using means, medians, and percentiles for continuous variables and percentages for categorical variables and associated exact 95% confidence intervals will be constructed. Comparisons between subsets of study participants will be conducted using exact tests., Up to 3 years|Duration of CR/CRi and CR/CRh (DoR), Analysis of DOR will be performed using Cox Regression, and Kaplan-Meier plots will be provided., From the date of CR, CRi or CRh until the date of relapse or death, assessed up to 3 years|Relapse-free survival (RFS), Analysis of RFS will be performed using Cox Regression, and Kaplan-Meier plots will be provided., From the date of CR, CRi or CRh until the date of relapse or death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Event-free survival (EFS), Analysis of EFS will be performed using Cox Regression, and Kaplan-Meier plots will be provided., From the date of entry into study to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Analysis of OS will be performed using Cox Regression, and Kaplan-Meier plots will be provided., From the date of entry into study to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of uproleselan combined with azacitidine and venetoclax in older or unfit patients with treatment naive acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of uproleselan combined with azacitidine and venetoclax in older or unfit patients with treatment naive AML.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive uproleselan intravenously (IV) over 1 hour every 12 hours (Q12H) on days 1-7, azacitidine IV or subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 1-7, and venetoclax orally (PO) QD on days 1-28. Beginning cycle 5, patients achieving morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS) or better response, may receive azacitidine IV or SC QD and uproleselan IV over 1 hour QD on days 1-6 and 8 or days 1-5 and 8-9 or days 1-5. Treatment with uproleselan repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cycles with azacitidine and venetoclax repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 3 months for 1 year.