Enzalutamide and Indomethacin in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of enzalutamide and indomethacin and to see how well they work in treating patients with prostate cancer that does not respond to treatment with hormones, has come back, or has spread from where it started to other places in the body. Androgens can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Hormone therapy using enzalutamide and indomethacin may fight prostate cancer by lowering the amount of androgen the body makes and/or blocking the use of androgen by the tumor cells.
Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Indomethacin
Incidence of adverse events evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Adverse events and adverse events of grade 3 or higher will be listed for each patient and summarized by body system in a frequency table., Up to 3.5 years|PSA response rate defined as >= 50% decrease from the baseline, The characteristics of the study participants will be summarized using frequencies and percentages for categorical variables and descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, maximum) for numeric variables. The proportion of participants who experience a PSA response will be computed, along with the exact 95% confidence interval., Up to 3.5 years
Overall response determined by PCWG2 criteria, Up to 3.5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier; medians and 95% confidence intervals will be computed., Up to 3.5 years|PFS, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier; medians and 95% confidence intervals will be computed., Up to 3.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the toxicity of indomethacin and enzalutamide when given in combination, and to determine the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response that is defined as a 50% or more reduction from the baseline.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response as determined by the Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 criteria (PCWG2).

II. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) patients treated with indomethacin and enzalutamide.

III. To evaluate molecular correlatives for patient response and outcomes through the analysis of patient baseline tumor specimens (diagnostic biopsy) along with serial blood specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive enzalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) and indomethacin PO twice daily (BID) or QD. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 months.