An Optimized Ultrasound Twinkling Marker for the Imaging of Lymph Nodes in Patients With Clinically Node-Positive Breast Cancer, The UTMOST2 Trial
This phase II trial studies the performance, including ultrasound visibility, of an optimized ultrasound twinkling marker in imaging lymph nodes in patients with clinically node-positive breast cancer. In patients with biopsy-proven breast cancer, biopsy markers are used to identify the sites of cancer involvement in both the breasts and lymph nodes. These biopsy markers are critical for guiding surgical management many months after the marker is placed. For breast radiologists and breast surgeons, there is a need for simple, consistent visibility of biopsy markers by ultrasound, particularly several months after marker placement. Ultrasound is the imaging method of choice, particularly for lymph nodes in the armpit (axilla). Ultrasound is non-ionizing and is more comfortable for patients compared to mammography. However, ultrasound visibility of these markers is challenging and inconsistent, with ultrasound failing to detect the marker approximately 25% of the time. The Mayo-designed investigational biopsy marker takes advantage of an ultrasound phenomenon called twinkling artifact. The Mayo-designed optimized ultrasound twinkling marker may work better than standard biopsy clip marker in imaging lymph nodes in patients with clinically node-positive breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Diagnostic Mammography|PROCEDURE: Resection|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound Imaging|DEVICE: Twinkling Marker Placement
Conspicuity of the optimized Mayo-developed twinkling marker, Assessed by the visibility/conspicuity of the twinkling marker under ultrasound occurring as part of standard of care \[neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST)\]., Baseline up to final pre-operative imaging before surgery; generally 6-9 months|Migration of the optimized Mayo-developed twinkling marker, Will be determined from surgical and pathology documentation after node resection, At time of surgery (baseline)
Incidence of adverse events (safety of twinkling marker), Adverse events (AEs) are defined as any untoward or unfavorable medical occurrence in a clinical research study participant, including any abnormal sign (e.g. abnormal physical exam or laboratory finding), symptom, or disease, temporally associated with the participants' involvement in the research, whether or not considered related to participation in the research. AEs will be assessed as Mild (events require minimal or no treatment and do not interfere with the participant's daily activities); Moderate (events result in a low level of inconvenience or concern with the therapeutic measures. Moderate events may cause some interference with functioning); or Severe (Events interrupt a participant's usual daily activity and may require systemic drug therapy or other treatment. Severe events are usually potentially life-threatening or incapacitating).Of note, the term "severe" does not necessarily equate to "serious"., Baseline up to final visit before surgery; generally 6-9 months
This phase II trial studies the performance, including ultrasound visibility, of an optimized ultrasound twinkling marker in imaging lymph nodes in patients with clinically node-positive breast cancer. In patients with biopsy-proven breast cancer, biopsy markers are used to identify the sites of cancer involvement in both the breasts and lymph nodes. These biopsy markers are critical for guiding surgical management many months after the marker is placed. For breast radiologists and breast surgeons, there is a need for simple, consistent visibility of biopsy markers by ultrasound, particularly several months after marker placement. Ultrasound is the imaging method of choice, particularly for lymph nodes in the armpit (axilla). Ultrasound is non-ionizing and is more comfortable for patients compared to mammography. However, ultrasound visibility of these markers is challenging and inconsistent, with ultrasound failing to detect the marker approximately 25% of the time. The Mayo-designed investigational biopsy marker takes advantage of an ultrasound phenomenon called twinkling artifact. The Mayo-designed optimized ultrasound twinkling marker may work better than standard biopsy clip marker in imaging lymph nodes in patients with clinically node-positive breast cancer.