Nurse-led Decision Counseling on Hepatocellular Carcinoma Screening
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a common malignancy with poor prognosis worldwide. The asymptomatic of early-stage HCC may lead most patients diagnosed at advanced stages. This highlights the importance of HCC screening among high-risk populations to detect HCC at early stages and achieve better survival. Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a major cause of HCC in China, but the utilization of HCC screening is suboptimal among patients with HBV infection.

Currently, there are no-theory based intervention, to our knowledge, has been reported to improve HCC screening decision-making and uptake among patients with HBV infection . Therefore, based on our previous systematic review, the current study has proposed a nurse-led decision counseling program to improve decision-making and uptake of HCC screening among patients with HBV infection in mainland China.

Participants in intervention group will receive nurse-led decision counseling. The intervention components include 40-minute education and tailored information regarding HCC screening. At the second week, decision support will be provided through 30-minute telephone call. At the third week, another telephone call (20 minutes) will be provided to help participants identify and address barriers to HCC screening.

Participants in control group will receive usual care. After the intervention and at 3-month follow-up, the study will collect data related to HCC screening uptake rates. Findings are paramount to promote informed choice in HCC screening and early HCC detection to improve survival outcomes among patients with HBV infection.
Hepatitis B|Hepatocellular Carcinoma
OTHER: Nurse-led decision counseling|OTHER: Usual care
HCC screening uptake rates, The liver ultrasound, serum alpha-fetoprotein, dynamic computed tomography, and magnetic resonance are all considered as screening tests in the current study., Immediately after intervention and three months after intervention
HCC screening knowledge questionnaire, It will be developed to measure knowledge regarding HCC and HCC screening recommendations. The yes or no questions and multiple-choice questions will be used to rate participants' responses by giving one point for a correct answer and zero point for an incorrect answer., Baseline, immediately after intervention and three months after intervention|Preventive health model construct instrument., It has five domains with 16 items measuring salience and coherence (four items), cancer worriers (two items), perceived susceptibility (four items), response efficacy (two items), and social influence (four items)., Baseline, immediately after intervention and three months after intervention|Decisional conflict scale, It consists of five subscales, including uncertainty, feeling informed, clarify related to personal values, feeling supported, and effective decision-making., Baseline, immediately after intervention and three months after intervention
Participants in the intervention group will receive the following three-week, three-session intervention. The details are as follows.

Education (20 min). At first week, education will be delivered through face-to-face for the following information: (1) HBV infection and increased HCC risk; (2) HCC screening recommendations regarding eligibility, available screening tests and recommended screening intervals; (3) pros/advantages of undergoing HCC screening; (4) cons/disadvantages or uncertainties of undergoing HCC screening; (5) implications of positive screening results; and (6) health costs. The education material will be present in a self-made manual, which will be explained and distributed to each participant.

Tailored psychosocial information (20 min). It will be conducted after education. The tailored messages will be developed to form a message library for each sub-scale of the preventive health model instrument with scoring ≤ 3 and \> 3. The contents will be based on HCC screening guidelines and recommendations. The nurse counsellor will select and explain tailored information based on individual's responses to the preventive health model instrument.

Values clarification exercises (30 min). At the second week, the decision counselor will work with participants through telephone-based way to go through values clarification exercises, in which participants will: (1) review the listed pros and cons decision factors of undergoing HCC screening one by one; (2) indicate the extent to which each pros and cons matters to them by giving stars; (3) add any other reasons for choosing or not choosing HCC screening and indicate their importance; and (4) indicate their decision preferences toward undergoing HCC screening, unsure, or not undergoing HCC screening.

Exploring and addressing implementation barriers (20 min). At the third week, the decision counselor will work with participants, through telephone-based ways, to explore possible barriers to undertake HCC screening; identify possible solutions or available resources to the identified barriers via brainstorming; and encourage implementation of the chosen solution to overcome the barriers and schedule for HCC screening.