Arm Circumference Measurement With or Without Bioimpedance Spectroscopy in Finding Lymphedema Early in Patients With Stage I-III Breast Cancer
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies arm circumference measurement with or without bioimpedance spectroscopy in finding extra lymph node fluid build up in the arm (lymphedema) early in patients with stage I-III breast cancer undergoing lymph node dissection or sentinel node biopsy. Diagnostic procedures, such as bioimpedance spectroscopy, may allow doctors to find and diagnose lymphedema earlier than arm circumference measurement alone.
Lymphedema|Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: arm circumference measurement|DEVICE: Bioimpedance spectroscopy
Rates of Enhanced Lymphedema Detection, Rates of enhanced lymphedema detection will be compared between the enhanced versus standard detection groups with the Fisher's exact test. Adjustment for potential imbalances in patient characteristics will be accomplished by fitting logistic and Cox proportional hazards regression models.

\*\*\* Study was terminated because PI left the institution. Study coordinator also left the institution. No data was analyzed. Participants' baseline records not available.\*\*\*, During treatment (Up to 34 months)
Severity of Enhanced Lymphedema, Severity of LE in terms of changes in arm circumference at the site of greatest difference and L-Dex change, will be compared between the enhanced versus standard detection groups with the Fisher's exact test. Adjustment for potential imbalances in patient characteristics will be accomplished by fitting logistic and Cox proportional hazards regression models., During treatment (Up to 34 months)|Percentage of Subjects With Complete Resolution of Signs of Enhanced Lymphedema, The Fisher's exact test will be used to compare between the enhanced vs. standard detection groups the percentage of subjects with complete resolution of signs and symptoms of LE following treatment with a compression garment. Logistic regression models will also be fit to the data to adjust for potential confounders., During treatment (up to 34 months) plus 1 year post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test, in a randomized controlled trial, the ability of the enhanced lymphedema (LE) detection program (ELED) versus arm circumference alone to detect early/reversible LE.

II. To compare the severity of LE in terms of changes in arm circumference at the site of greatest difference and L-Dex change, between the two detection modalities.

III. To assess the agreement between patients' self-report of swelling (mild, moderation and severe) and the extent of circumferential measurement/bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) difference.

IV. To compare the percentage of subjects with complete resolution of signs and symptoms of LE following treatment with a compression garment between the enhanced vs. standard detection groups.

V. To determine compliance with LE preventive care and treatment.

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms: those undergo arm circumference measurement only and those undergoing undergo arm circumference measurement and bioimpedance spectroscopy. Measurements taken at 4, 10, 16, 22, 28, and 34 months.

In both arms, if lymphedema is diagnosed, patients are given a compression garment to wear daily for 6 weeks. If lymphedema does not improve after 6 weeks, patients undergo complete decongestive therapy over approximately 1 hour three times a week. Patients complete remedial exercises comprising active, repetitive range of motion of the involved extremity and light aerobic conditioning until extremity volume stabilizes or improves. Patients are also instructed to perform exercises at home.

After completion of study, patients diagnosed with lymphedema are followed up for 1 year.