Study of BEMA™ Fentanyl in the Treatment of Breakthrough Pain in Cancer Subjects
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of BEMA Fentanyl (Onsolis) at any dose in the management of breakthrough pain in cancer subjects on background opioid therapy. The standard of care for these breakthrough pain episodes is a rapid onset, short acting analgesic with minimal associated sleepiness. Oral morphine, oxycodone and hydromorphone are routinely used, but because of slow and variable oral absorption, the pain control is not the best with these products. Oral transmucosal fentanyl citrate (OTFC) has been used successfully in treating breakthrough pain episodes associated with cancer. OTFC is a lozenge of fentanyl on a stick and is administered by continuously swabbing the interior of the subject's mouth until the product is dissolved (approximately 15 to 30 minutes). The buccal route of administration avoids the delay and variability associated with oral absorption.
Pain|Cancer
DRUG: BEMA™|DRUG: Placebo
Summary of Pain Intensity Differences (SPID), Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is

-10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome., 0-30 minutes
SPID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome.SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest., 0-5 minutes|SPID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome.SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest., 0-10 minutes|SPID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome.SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest., 0-15 minutes|SPID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome.SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest., 0-45 minutes|SPID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome.SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest., 0-60 minutes|PID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point., 5 minutes after dosing|PID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point., 10 minutes after dosing|PID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point., 15 minutes after dosing|PID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point., 30 minutes after dosing|PID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point., 45 minutes after dosing|PID, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point., 60 minutes after dosing|Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief) at 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after taking the study medication or until rescue., 5 minutes after dosing|Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief) at 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after taking the study medication or until rescue., 10 minutes after dosing|Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief) at 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after taking the study medication or until rescue., 15 minutes after dosing|Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief) at 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after taking the study medication or until rescue., 30 minutes after dosing|Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief) at 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after taking the study medication or until rescue., 45 minutes after dosing|Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief) at 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after taking the study medication or until rescue., 60 minutes after dosing|Total Pain Relief, Total Pain Relief (TOTPAR) is calculated as the weighted sum of the pain relief (PR) of all time points at or prior to the time point of interest.Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief)compared to baseline (pre-dose), 5 minutes|Total Pain Relief, Total Pain Relief (TOTPAR) is calculated as the weighted sum of the pain relief (PR) of all time points at or prior to the time point of interest. Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief)compared to baseline (pre-dose), 10 minutes|Total Pain Relief, Total Pain Relief (TOTPAR) is calculated as the weighted sum of the pain relief (PR) of all time points at or prior to the time point of interest. Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief)compared to baseline (pre-dose), 15 minutes|Total Pain Relief, Total Pain Relief (TOTPAR) is calculated as the weighted sum of the pain relief (PR) of all time points at or prior to the time point of interest. Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief)compared to baseline (pre-dose), 30 minutes|Total Pain Relief, Total Pain Relief (TOTPAR) is calculated as the weighted sum of the pain relief (PR) of all time points at or prior to the time point of interest. Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief)compared to baseline (pre-dose), 45 minutes|Total Pain Relief, Total Pain Relief (TOTPAR) is calculated as the weighted sum of the pain relief (PR) of all time points at or prior to the time point of interest. Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief)compared to baseline (pre-dose), 60 minutes|Subject Overall Satisfaction With Study Drug, Subjects evaluated their overall satisfaction with study drug at the time rescue medication was consumed or at the 60-minute time point using a 5-point categorical scale (0 = poor, 1 = fair, 2 = good, 3 = very good, and 4 = excellent)., 60 minutes or at time of rescue medication use|Percentage of Pain Free Episodes, A pain free episode is one with 0 pain intensity at the specified time point. Percentage of episodes that are pain-free per subject is analyzed., 5 minutes|Percentage of Pain Free Episodes, A pain free episode is one with 0 pain intensity at the specified time point. Percentage of episodes that are pain-free per subject is analyzed., 10 minutes|Percentage of Pain Free Episodes, A pain free episode is one with 0 pain intensity at the specified time point. Percentage of episodes that are pain-free per subject is analyzed., 15 minutes|Percentage of Pain Free Episodes, A pain free episode is one with 0 pain intensity at the specified time point. Percentage of episodes that are pain-free per subject is analyzed., 30 minutes|Percentage of Pain Free Episodes, A pain free episode is one with 0 pain intensity at the specified time point. Percentage of episodes that are pain-free per subject is analyzed., 45 minutes|Percentage of Pain Free Episodes, A pain free episode is one with 0 pain intensity at the specified time point. Percentage of episodes that are pain-free per subject is analyzed., 60 minutes|Episodes With at Least 50% Decreases in Pain, Number of episodes where the total pain score has at least a 50% reduction from baseline., 15 minutes|Episodes With at Least 50% Decreases in Pain, Number of episodes where the total pain score has at least a 50% reduction from baseline., 30 minutes|Episodes With at Least 50% Decreases in Pain, Number of episodes where the total pain score has at least a 50% reduction from baseline., 45 minutes|Episodes With at Least 50% Decreases in Pain, Number of episodes where the total pain score has at least a 50% reduction from baseline., 60 minutes|Episodes With at Least 33% Decreases in Pain, Number of episodes where the total pain score has at least a 33% reduction from baseline., 15 minutes|Episodes With at Least 33% Decreases in Pain, Number of episodes where the total pain score has at least a 33% reduction from baseline., 30 minutes|Episodes With at Least 33% Decreases in Pain, Number of episodes where the total pain score has at least a 33% reduction from baseline., 45 minutes|Episodes With at Least 33% Decreases in Pain, Number of episodes where the total pain score has at least a 50% reduction from baseline., 60 minutes|Episodes With Complete Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief). Percentage of episodes with complete relief per subject is analyzed where a complete pain relief episode is defined as pain relief of value 4 at the specified time point., 5 minutes|Episodes With Complete Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief).Percentage of episodes with complete relief per subject is analyzed where a complete pain relief episode is defined as pain relief of value 4 at the specified time point., 10 minutes|Episodes With Complete Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief).Percentage of episodes with complete relief per subject is analyzed where a complete pain relief episode is defined as pain relief of value 4 at the specified time point., 15 minutes|Episodes With Complete Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief). Percentage of episodes with complete relief per subject is analyzed where a complete pain relief episode is defined as pain relief of value 4 at the specified time point., 30 minutes|Episodes With Complete Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief). Percentage of episodes with complete relief per subject is analyzed where a complete pain relief episode is defined as pain relief of value 4 at the specified time point., 45 minutes|Episodes With Complete Pain Relief, Pain relief (PR) is measured using a 5-point categorical scale (0=no relief to 4=complete relief). Percentage of episodes with complete relief per subject is analyzed where a complete pain relief episode is defined as pain relief of value 4 at the specified time point., 60 minutes|Rescue Medication Usage, Rescue medication is medication taken if adequate pain relief is not realized within 30 minutes following application of the study drug. Percentage of episodes when rescue medication was used per subject is analyzed., 28 Days
SPID in Neuropathic Pain Subpopulation, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest for the Neuropathic pain subpopulation for relevant time points (15, 30, 45, 60 minutes). Neuropathic pain subpopulation is a subset of ITT population who have neuropathic pain at baseline., 15 minutes|SPID in Neuropathic Pain Subpopulation, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest for the Neuropathic pain subpopulation for relevant time points (15, 30, 45, 60 minutes). Neuropathic pain subpopulation is a subset of ITT population who have neuropathic pain at baseline., 30 minutes|SPID in Neuropathic Pain Subpopulation, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest for the Neuropathic pain subpopulation for relevant time points (15, 30, 45, 60 minutes). Neuropathic pain subpopulation is a subset of ITT population who have neuropathic pain at baseline., 45 minutes|SPID in Neuropathic Pain Subpopulation, Pain intensity (using an 11-point \[0 = no pain to 10 = worst pain\] numeric scale) was recorded at 0, 5, 10, 15, 30, 45, and 60 minutes after dosing. Pain intensity difference (PID) was defined as the baseline pain score minus the pain score of each time point. The primary endpoint was the Summary of Pain Intensity Differences at 30 minutes after dosing (SPID 30) in ITT population for Onsolis versus placebo during double-blind period of study. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the PID of all time points at or before time point of interest.Range of possible SPID values is -10X time point (minutes) to 10X time point (minutes). Higher value indicates a better outcome. SPID was calculated as a weighted sum of the pain intensity difference of all time points at or before the time point of interest for the Neuropathic pain subpopulation for relevant time points (15, 30, 45, 60 minutes). Neuropathic pain subpopulation is a subset of ITT population who have neuropathic pain at baseline., 60 minutes
This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, multiple cross-over study. Eligible subjects will be treated with open label BEMA fentanyl over a period of up to two weeks. Doses will be titrated upward, starting at 200 μg, until a dose is identified that produces satisfactory pain relief for at least 2 episodes. Those subjects who identify a dose of BEMA fentanyl that produces satisfactory relief of breakthrough pain episodes will enter the double-blind, placebo controlled period of the trial. They will receive 3 placebo doses and 6 BEMA fentanyl doses in a random sequence per randomization schedule.