Capecitabine and Lapatinib Ditosylate in Treating Patients With Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Lapatinib ditosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving capecitabine together with lapatinib ditosylate may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving capecitabine and lapatinib ditosylate together works in treating patients with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck.
Head and Neck Cancer|Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary|Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Salivary Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IV Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity
DRUG: lapatinib ditosylate|DRUG: capecitabine
Overall Survival, 5 years
Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 5 years|Disease Control Rate, 5 years|Progression-free Survival, 5 years|Number of Participants With Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, ADVERSE EVENTS (AE) AND SERIOUS ADVERSE EVENTS (SAE) Adverse Events (AEs) will use the descriptions and grading scales found in the NCI CTCAE v3.0, 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Overall survival (OS) will be the primary endpoint.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Progression free survival (PFS). II. Time to disease progression and sites of progression. III. Response rate. IV. Toxicity of the combination in this population. V. Quality of life.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate once daily on days 1-21 and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 5 years.