DPP-IV Inhibitors Underlying Mechanism of Cancer in Diabetic Patients
Recently, DPP-IV inhibitors are used as a novel way to augment the incretin system and one of the newest classes of medications in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Since the DPP-IV inhibitor was first used, about 5 years have passed in USA. However, there were no major side effects including occurrence of cancers. The main mechanism for DPP-IV inhibitors is due to suppress the function of DPP-IV activity. As it is known that the suppressed DPP-IV activity is a marker for early diagnosis of cancers, the reason of disassociation is not clear.

Activation of receptor for advanced glycation endproduct (AGE) is related to sideration of cancers. Meanwhile, the DPP-IV inhibitors may be related to inhibit the activation of receptor for AGE (RAGE). Therefore, DPP-IV inhibitors may work as a cancer protective agent in diabetes by blocking the AGE-RAGE axis.

However, it is not demonstrated why DPP-IV inhibitors have no side effect of occurrence of cancer via blocking the activation of AGE-RAGE.

The investigators examined effect of DPP-IV inhibitors on frequency of cancers and the underlying mechanism using AGE and RAGE before and 5 years after administration of DPP-IV inhibitors in Japanese patients with T2DM.
Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
DRUG: Sitagliptin|DRUG: Alogliptin|DRUG: Vildagliptin
Frequency of cancers, Each one year within 5 years
AGE concentration, Serum AGE is measured using ELISA at the laboratory of Department pf Pathophysiology and Therapeutics of Diabetes Vascular Complications, Kurume University, which requre as 0.75 ml of serum in each patient., Before and each one year within 5 years|Receptor for AGE concentration, Serum receptor for AGE is measured using ELISA at the laboratory of Department pf Pathophysiology and Therapeutics of Diabetes Vascular Complications, Kurume University, which requre as 0.75 ml of serum in each patient, Before and each one year within 5 years
The AGE and RAGE are measured using ELISA method in the laboratory of Department of Pathophysiology and Therapeutics of Diabetes Vascular Complications, Kurume University, School of Medicine, Japan before and for 5 years after administration of DPP-IV inhibitors.