Dendritic Cell Vaccination to Prevent Hepatocellular Carcinoma Recurrence After Liver Resection-phase II Clinical Trial
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver tumors. Surgical resection remains the first choice of early stage HCC because the result is superior to other treatments and not limited to liver donation. However, liver resection is criticized that tumor recurrent rate is more than 50% in 5 years although the tumors are completely resected. In our large scale study including 1639 patients with liver resection for HCC, the 1-, 3-, and 5-year disease survival were 73.7%, 58.3% and 53.3%, respectively. Currently there are no effective treatment used as adjuvant therapy to prevent HCC recurrence. Dendritic cells (DC) are the most potent professional antigen-presenting cells, and can capture tumor antigens to provoke antigen-specific cytotoxic T-cells. DC pulsed by tumor associated antigens can be used to proceed tumor-specific immunotherapy. Thereafter, DC pulsed HCC tumor-antigens may be used as an adjuvant therapy to prevent HCC recurrence.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous Dendritic Cell
Disease-free survival, From date of randomization untill the date of radiographic tumor assessment confirm tumor recurrence, assessed up to 3 years
Overall survival, 3 years
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary liver tumors. Surgical resection remains the first choice of early stage HCC because the result is superior to other treatments and not limited to liver donation. However, liver resection is criticized that tumor recurrent rate is more than 50% in 5 years although the tumors are completely resected. In our large scale study including 1639 patients with liver resection for HCC, the 1-, 3-, and 5-year disease survival were 73.7%, 58.3% and 53.3%, respectively. Currently there are no effective treatment used as adjuvant therapy to prevent HCC recurrence. Dendritic cells (DC) are the most potent professional antigen-presenting cells, and can capture tumor antigens to provoke antigen-specific cytotoxic T-cells. DC pulsed by tumor associated antigens can be used to proceed tumor-specific immunotherapy. Thereafter, DC pulsed HCC tumor-antigens may be used as an adjuvant therapy to prevent HCC recurrence.