Real-World Study on CDK4/6 Inhibitors Combined With Endocrine Therapy and Subsequent Treatment in HR+/HER2- MBC.
Exploring the Efficacy and Safety of Different Systemic Treatment Regimens after CDK4/6i Progression in the Real World has significant implications. This study is an observational, real-world study. It plans to include over 300 eligible HR+/HER2- metastatic breast cancer patients who are currently receiving or planning to receive endocrine therapy regimens containing CDK4/6 inhibitors. This study is a single-arm, non-interventional study that evaluates the efficacy and safety of the first-line treatment regimen, which includes CDK4/6 inhibitors combined with endocrine therapy, based on clinical guideline consensus. After disease progression on first-line treatment, the second-line systemic treatment regimen (including but not limited to switching to another CDK4/6 inhibitor combined with endocrine therapy, other types of endocrine therapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, etc.) will be chosen by the physician, and the efficacy and safety of subsequent treatment will be evaluated. Additionally, peripheral blood ctDNA testing will be used to assess changes in baseline and progression-related biomarkers, including ESR1, PI3KCA, FGFR1, PTEN, among some patients.
Breast Cancer|Endocrine Therapy|CDK4/6 Inhibitors|Subsequent Treatment
DRUG: Different treatment regimens following progression on CDK4/6 inhibitors.
Progression-Free Survival, The survival time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or date of death, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months
Objective Response Rate, It is a statistical measure used in clinical trials to evaluate the effectiveness of a treatment by assessing the proportion of patients who achieve either a partial or complete objective response to the treatment., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months
Overall survival, The time from randomization to death from any cause, The time from randomization to death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months|Adverse Events, All adverse events \[including adverse events (AE / SAE) and ADR (adverse drug reactions)\] will be collected when known. The classification of adverse reactions shall refer to CTCAE5.0 in case of adverse events / reactions. In case of serious adverse events, the investigators must immediately take necessary treatment measures to protect the safety of subjects. All adverse events / reactions should be tracked and observed. If the adverse events have not recovered, the investigator shall continue to give necessary treatment, report and record, and deal with special cases according to the management opinions of relevant departments., Primary Outcome Measure: 1.Progression-Free Survival The survival time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or date of death, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months [Time Frame: From date of randomizatio
Exploring the Efficacy and Safety of Different Systemic Treatment Regimens after CDK4/6i Progression in the Real World has significant implications. This study is an observational, real-world study. It plans to include over 300 eligible HR+/HER2- metastatic breast cancer patients who are currently receiving or planning to receive endocrine therapy regimens containing CDK4/6 inhibitors. This study is a single-arm, non-interventional study that evaluates the efficacy and safety of the first-line treatment regimen, which includes CDK4/6 inhibitors combined with endocrine therapy, based on clinical guideline consensus. After disease progression on first-line treatment, the second-line systemic treatment regimen (including but not limited to switching to another CDK4/6 inhibitor combined with endocrine therapy, other types of endocrine therapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy, etc.) will be chosen by the physician, and the efficacy and safety of subsequent treatment will be evaluated. Additionally, peripheral blood ctDNA testing will be used to assess changes in baseline and progression-related biomarkers, including ESR1, PI3KCA, FGFR1, PTEN, among some patients.