Phase II High Dose Brachytherapy and Low Dose Rate Brachytherapy as Monotherapy in Localized Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the dose of High Dose Rate (HDR) brachytherapy chosen for this study as well as a commonly used alternate form of brachytherapy called low dose rate (or seed) brachytherapy. Investigators would like to understand how these treatments control the prostate cancer and look at their short and long term treatment related side effects.

The dose of radiation for HDR brachytherapy for this study has been changed since the study started. Other studies using the dose of radiation for HDR brachytherapy that was originally chosen for this study (Arm 2) found that this dose of radiation may be linked to a greater chance of the cancer coming back in the prostate. Therefore since March 2020, for new participants entering the study, a new HDR brachytherapy arm with a higher amount of radiation given over two doses will be tested in this study
Prostate Carcinoma
RADIATION: Low dose rate brachytherapy|RADIATION: High dose rate brachytherapy
Efficacy of HDR and LDR brachytherapy on prostate cancer control as defined by 48 month PSA values, The primary endpoint of the study is prostate cancer control rate at 48 months. It is defined as the PSA \<0.4ng/ml at 48 months. One sample binomial test will be used to test the 48 months disease control rate for each arm, 48 months
Disease-free survival, 7 years|Number and severity of adverse events, Acute and long term toxicity and safety including lower urinary tract symptoms, 7 years|Quality of Life of patient and partner utilizing EPIC, PROMIS and R-DAS fatigue short form, 7 years|Economic Analysis, Resource utilization and economic indices of treatment administration, 7 years
Establish a comprehensive tumour bank linked to a clinical database for further studies of predictive and prognostic biomarkers in prostate cancer, 7 years|PSA Progression - PSA nadir +2 ng/ml will be used to define biochemical failure and can only be declared at 36 months or beyond due to the phenomenon of PSA bounce, 7 years|PSA nadir - Date PSA nadir +2 ng/ml is reached, 7 years|Local disease progression - Clinically suspicious change in DRE with biopsy confirmation of progression or Urethral obstruction or bleeding necessitating a trans-urethral resection (TURP) only if resected tissue demonstrates malignancy, 7 years|Regional disease progression - Prostate cancer progression involving the lymph nodes below the bifurcation of the common iliac arteries., 7 years|Distant disease progression - Evidence of prostate cancer by radiology or cytology or histology at sites remote from the prostate, 7 years
Radiation therapy is an accepted treatment to help manage low and intermediate risk prostate cancer. Radiation therapy can be given using machines that are outside the body (called "image guided external beam radiation therapy") or by brachytherapy, which is a form of radiation therapy where the radiation source is placed directly into the prostate gland near the tumour. The standard or usual treatments for low or intermediate risk prostate cancer are low dose-rate (LDR) brachytherapy which involves placing radioactive seeds in the prostate which deliver radiation over several months, image guided external beam radiation therapy (IGRT), or IGRT plus high dose-rate (HDR) brachytherapy boost.

High Dose-Rate (HDR) brachytherapy is another type of brachytherapy which delivers a high dose of radiation to the tumour over a period of minutes. The radiation is delivered under computer control through flexible needles, which are temporarily inserted into the prostate. This form of radiotherapy targets cancer cells within the prostate gland. HDR brachytherapy is another type of radiotherapy for prostate cancer that has the potential to help target your cancer more accurately while causing fewer side effects compared with standard radiation therapy. HDR brachytherapy is an option for treatment in some hospitals now but the best dose of radiation is still unknown. This study is testing a new dose of radiation for HDR brachytherapy.