The HistoSonics System for Treatment of Primary and Metastatic Liver Tumors Using Histotripsy
This trial is a single arm, non-randomized prospective trial. The objective of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the HistoSonics System for the treatment of primary or metastatic tumors located in the liver. The co-primary safety and efficacy endpoints must be met for the trial to be successful.
Liver Neoplasms|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Liver Metastases
DEVICE: HistoSonics System
Primary Efficacy: Technical Success, Technical success, defined as the treatment volume/treatment dimensions being greater than or equal to the targeted tumor, and with complete tumor coverage, via computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. \[Core Laboratory Adjudicated\] Primary efficacy was assessed per tumor with a performance goal of greater than 70%.

Primary efficacy was assessed after the first forty (40) consecutive evaluable subjects were enrolled. Evaluable subjects had sufficient CT or MR imaging data to allow the independent core laboratory to evaluate technical success., ≤36 hours post-index procedure|Primary Safety: Procedure-Related Major Complications, Number of index procedure related major complications, including device-related events defined as Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade 3 or higher toxicities observed up to 30-days post index-procedure. \[Clinical Events Committee Adjudicated\] Primary safety was assessed per participant with a performance goal of less than 25%.

Primary safety was assessed on all subjects enrolled, after the first forty (40) consecutive subjects evaluable for technical success were enrolled. Evaluable subjects had sufficient CT or MR imaging data to allow the independent core laboratory to evaluate technical success. Enrollment of 44 total subjects was required to assess forty (40) subjects evaluable for technical success., 30 days post-index procedure
Technical Success, Technical success, defined as the treatment volume/treatment dimensions being greater than or equal to the targeted tumor, and with complete tumor coverage, via computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. \[Core Laboratory Adjudicated\], ≤36 hours post-index procedure|Procedure-Related Major Complications, Number of index procedure related major complications, including device-related events defined as Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grade 3 or higher toxicities observed up to 30-days post index-procedure. \[Clinical Events Committee Adjudicated\], 30 days post-index procedure|Secondary Efficacy: Technique Efficacy, Technique efficacy, defined as the lack of a nodular or mass-like area of enhancement within or along the edge of the treatment volume assessed via CT or MR imaging at 30-days post-procedure. \[Core Laboratory Adjudicated\], 30 days post-index procedure|Secondary Safety: All Adverse Events, Number of adverse events (serious and non-serious) reported within 30 days post-index procedure. \[Clinical Events Committee Adjudicated\], 30 days post-index procedure
This trial is a single arm, non-randomized, multicenter, prospective trial. Following histotripsy treatment of liver tumor(s), subjects will undergo imaging ≤36 hours post-index procedure to determine technical success. Subjects will then be followed for 30 days. Additionally, subjects will be evaluated at 6 months and followed annually for up to five (5) years post-index procedure.

The #HOPE4LIVER US trial required pooling data from #HOPE4LIVER US and #HOPE4LIVER EU/UK (NCT04573881). Subjects were treated with the same intervention (HistoSonics System) using identical protocols tailored to the regulatory requirements for each geography.