Pleurectomy/ Decortication (P/D) Preceded or Followed by Chemotherapy in Patients With Early Stage MPM
This is a multicenter, randomized, 1:1, non-comparative phase II trial. Patients with early stage MPM will be randomized between Arm A: immediate P/D followed by three cycles of chemotherapy (pemetrexed 500mg/m2 and cisplatin 75 mg/m2, both drugs given on day 1, every three weeks) Arm B: three cycles of chemotherapy (same regimen) followed by P/D, for non-progressing patients
Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
PROCEDURE: pleurectomy/decortication|DRUG: Pemetrexed/Cisplatin
Rate of success to complete the full treatment, A patient is considered to be a "treatment success" if he/she meets all of the following criteria:

1. Patient has received the full protocol treatment, defined as 3 cycles of pemetrexed and cisplatin (allowing for the dose adjustments described in section 5.3), preceded/followed by pleurectomy/decortication (P/D) (as described in section 5.3).
2. Patient alive and has no evidence of progression/relapse at week 20 (±2 weeks) after the first day of starting protocol treatment (either chemotherapy or P/D).
3. Patient has no persisting grade 3-4 treatment side-effects (CTCAE V 4.0) at week 20 (±2 weeks) after the first day of starting protocol treatment (either chemotherapy or P/D), 20weeks
Loco-regional failure free survival, Loco-Regional Failure Free Survival (LRFFS) is defined as the time interval between the date of randomization and the date of relapse in hemithorax or mediastinum or death, whichever comes first, 6 months|Overall survival, the time interval between the date of randomization and the date of death of any cause, 15 months|Treatment side-effects, Treatment side-effects will be assessed for all patients and graded per CTCAE category upon occurrence of the event. The investigator will assess whether those events are surgery or/and drug related (no reasonable possibility, reasonable possibility) and this assessment will be recorded in the database for all adverse events. Surgical side effects during the perioperative period will be scored according to the Clavien-Dindo Classification of Surgical Complications as an exploratory approach., 36 weeks
This is an academic led, multicenter, randomized, 1:1, non-comparative phase II trial. Patients with early stage MPM will be randomized between

* Arm A - immediate surgery: immediate P/D followed by three cycles of chemotherapy (pemetrexed 500mg/m2 and cisplatin 75 mg/m2, both drugs given on day 1, every three weeks) for non-progressing patients
* Arm B - delayed surgery: three cycles of chemotherapy (same regimen) followed by P/D, for non-progressing patients.

A maximum of four weeks (±2 weeks) will be allowed between the baseline tumor assessment and the start of treatment (surgery or chemotherapy). Randomization should be done as soon as possible after baseline tumor assessment.

The primary objective of the study is to investigate the feasibility of immediate P/D followed by cisplatin/pemetrexed chemotherapy or deferred P/D after cisplatin/pemetrexed chemotherapy in patients with early stage MPM.

The results of this study will allow the LCG to take one of the arms further to a comparative study with either no surgery or EPP as control arm. The choice of the comparator will depend on the result of a parallel ongoing randomized study in the UK, comparing P/D with no surgery