Multi-antigen CMV-MVA Triplex Vaccine in Reducing CMV Complications in Patients Previously Infected With CMV and Undergoing Donor Hematopoietic Cell Transplant
This randomized phase II trial studies the safety and how well multi-peptide cytomegalovirus (CMV)-modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) vaccine works in reducing CMV complications in patients previously infected with CMV and are undergoing a donor hematopoietic cell transplant. CMV is a virus that may reproduce and cause disease and even death in patients with lowered immune systems, such as those undergoing a hematopoietic cell transplant. By placing 3 small pieces of CMV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (the chemical form of genes) into a very safe, weakened virus called MVA, the multi-peptide CMV-MVA vaccine may be able to induce immunity (the ability to recognize and respond to an infection) to CMV. This may help to reduce both CMV complications and reduce the need for antiviral drugs in patients undergoing a donor hematopoietic cell transplant.
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Cytomegaloviral Infection|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Lymphadenopathy|Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelofibrosis|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Multi-peptide CMV-Modified Vaccinia Ankara Vaccine|OTHER: Placebo
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Events to Day 100, Cytomegalovirus (CMV) events included CMV reactivation ≥1250 CMV DNA IU/mL, CMV viremia prompting antiviral therapy, or CMV disease before day 100 after HCT., Prior to day 100 post-HCT|Incidence of Severe (Grade 3-4) Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease, Severe acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD, grade 3-4) was monitored as every 12th subject on the vaccine arm reaches the 100 day evaluation point. aGVHD was scored using Keystone consensus criteria \[Przepiorka, D., et al., 1994 Consensus Conference on Acute GVHD Grading. Bone Marrow Transplant, 1995. 15(6): p. 825-8\]., Up to 100 days post-transplant
All-cause Mortality, Death due to any cause., Up to 1 year post-HCT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of CMV-MVA Triplex (multi-peptide CMV-MVA vaccine) in vaccinated hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) recipients by assessing the following: non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100 days post HCT, severe (grade 3-4) acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) (aGVHD), and grade 3-4 adverse events (AEs) (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] 4.0) probably or definitely related to the vaccination within 2 weeks from each vaccination.

II. To determine if CMV-MVA Triplex reduces the frequency of CMV events defined as reactivation or CMV disease in allogeneic CMV positive HCT recipients (HCT-R+).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize CMV reactivation and CMV disease in recipients of CMV-MVA Triplex compared to placebo by assessing time-to viremia (defined as number of days from transplantation to the date of \> 500 CMV gc/mL), duration of viremia, recurrence of viremia, incidence of late CMV viremia/disease (\> 100 and =\< 360 days post HCT), use of antiviral drugs (triggered by clinically significant viremia of \>= 1500 CMV gc/mL), cumulative number of CMV specific antiviral treatment days.

II. To evaluate the impact of CMV-MVA Triplex on transplant related outcomes by assessing the incidence of acute GVHD (aGVHD), chronic GVHD (cGVHD), relapse, non-relapse mortality, all-cause mortality, infections.

III. To determine 1) if CMV-MVA Triplex increases levels, function and kinetics of CMV-specific T cell immunity in vaccinated compared to placebo treated human leukocyte antigen (HLA) A\*0201, CMV seropositive HCT-recipients, 2) to determine whether vaccination induces adaptive natural killer (NK) cell population changes, and increase in the highly cytotoxic memory killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily C, member 2 (NKG2C)+ NK cells, and 3) to explore GVHD biomarkers and compare between the vaccine and placebo groups.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive multi-peptide CMV-MVA vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on days 28 and 56 post-HCT.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo IM on days 28 and 56 post-HCT.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 1 year post-HCT.