Testing A New Combination of Anti-cancer Immune Therapies, Atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (Varlilumab) With or Without the Addition of a Third Anti-cancer Drug, Cobimetinib, for Advanced-Stage Biliary Tract Cancer
This phase II trial investigates the effect of combining two immune therapies, atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab), with or without cobimetinib, in treating patients with biliary tract cancer that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Varlilumab is an immune agonist antibody that may further strengthen the immune system's attack on the cancer. Cobimetinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of an abnormal protein that signals cancer cells to multiply. This helps slow or stop the spread of cancer cells. Giving atezolizumab in combination with varlilumab and cobimetinib may work better than atezolizumab and varlilumab alone in treating patients with unresectable biliary tract cancer.
Metastatic Distal Bile Duct Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Gallbladder Carcinoma|Metastatic Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma|Recurrent Distal Bile Duct Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Gallbladder Carcinoma|Recurrent Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma|Stage IV Distal Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Liver Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cobimetinib|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Varlilumab
Number of Participants Experiencing a Response, Response is defined as a complete response (CR) (disappearance of all lesions) or partial response (PR) (\>= 30% decrease in the sum of target lesions) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria after receiving at least one dose of the assigned study regimen., Up to 2 years|Duration of Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from the date of enrollment to the date of documented tumor progression (\>= 20% increase in the sum of target lesions, measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or appearance of a new lesion) by RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first for participants who received at least one dose of their assigned study regimen., Up to 2 years
The Number of Participants Experiencing Grade 3, 4 and 5 Adverse Events, Defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0. The highest grade experienced by the participant will be reported., Up to 2 years|Duration of Overall Survival (OS), Time from date of enrollment to time of death or censor date (Participants who withdrew consent were censored to the date of withdrawal and participants still in follow-up were censored to the date of last contact.)., Up to 2 years|Change in T-cell Populations, The change in density of CD8+ T cells at baseline to after treatment., Baseline up to 2 years|The Change in Clearance Rates, Analysis of the activity of drugs in the body over a period of time, including the processes by which drugs are absorbed, distributed in the body, localized in the tissues, and excreted. The change will be assessed from before treatment to after 2 doses of treatment., At 6 weeks|The Amount of Anti-drug Antibodies With Treatment, Analysis of an agent's ability to provoke an immune response (humoral and/or cell-mediated) in the subject, Up to 2 years
Tumor Microenvironment Modulation and Immunologic Response, Immunological variables will be examined in plots and summary statistics, to characterize distributions, identify outliers and other potential problems in the data., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the response rate (ORR) of patients with unresectable, pre-treated biliary cancers treated with the combination of atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab) with or without cobimetinib.

II. To assess the progression free survival (PFS) of patients with unresectable, pre-treated biliary cancers treated with the combination of atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab) with or without cobimetinib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of combination of atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab) with or without cobimetinib in patients with unresectable, pre-treated biliary cancers.

II. To assess overall survival (OS) of patients with unresectable, pre-treated biliary cancers treated with the combination of atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab) with or without cobimetinib.

III. To determine the effect of combination atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab) +/- cobimetinib on T cell subpopulations systemically and intratumorally.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the effect of atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab) +/- cobimetinib on local and systemic immune activation pathways, immune suppressive pathways, and cytokine/chemokine signaling in peripheral blood and within the tumor microenvironment.

II. To assess whether atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab) clearance at baseline and over time correlate with clinical outcomes (ORR, PFS and OS) and the presence of cachexia.

III. To assess immunogenicity by monitoring for the presence of anti-drug antibodies (ADA) to both atezolizumab and CDX-1127 (varlilumab).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cobimetinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of each cycle, atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of each cycle, and varlilumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo a computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline, every 8 weeks while on treatment, and at end of treatment or progression. Patients also undergo a tumor biopsy at baseline and on day 21 of cycle 1. Patients also undergo blood sample collection on study.

ARM B: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15 of each cycle and varlilumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo a CT or MRI at baseline, every 8 weeks while on treatment, and at end of treatment or progression. Patients also undergo a tumor biopsy at baseline and on day 21 of cycle 1. Patients also undergo blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months until death, withdrawal of consent, or study closure.