Evaluation of the Influence of Short Term Fasting Diet on Chemotherapy-induced Toxicities in Breast Cancer Patients
This is a clinical trial aiming to assess the effect of fasting diet on chemotherapy - induced toxicities in breast cancer patients. The study will have an intevention group and a control group. The intervention group will follow a fasting diet of 60 hours (36h prior chemotherapy and 24h after the end of chemotherary), while the control group will follow regular (standard) diet. At the meantime of the chemotherapy cycles, the intervention group will be recommended to follow the Mediterranean diet.

The main questions this study is aiming to answer is whether short term fasting diet influences chemotherary - induced toxicities and if it is easy to be implemented.
Fasting, Diet, Chemotherapy, Toxicity
OTHER: fasting diet
Evaluation of the influence of short term fasting diet on the incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events [safety and tolerability]) caused by chemotherapy, Grade of toxicity will be accessed after each chempotherapy, using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events and eorct. Data will be collected and comparison between the two groups will be performed after each chemotherapy cycle., The patients with receive 4-8 cycles of chemotherapy,each cycle is repeated every 21 days. At the end of each cycle and prior next cycle the incidence of treatment - emergent adverse events (safety and tolerability) will be accessed.
This is a clinical trial aiming to assess the effect of fasting diet on chemotherapy - induced toxicities in breast cancer patients. The study will have an intevention group and a control group. The intervention group will follow a fasting diet for 60 hours (36h prior chemotherapy and 24h after the end of chemotherapy), while the control group will follow regular diet. At the meantime of the chemotherapy cycles, the intervention group will be recommended to follow the Mediterranean diet. The patients will be randomized in the two groups. A total of 50 patients is required. Biochemical data, anthropometric measures and grading of toxicity according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, nutritional habits, adherence to the Mediterranean diet (implementation of MedDietScore) will be assessed prior, during and after the intervention, in both groups. Nutritional counseling will be performed by Registered Dietitian, and telephone interviews will be used to record adherence to fasting diet and Mediterranean diet.

The main questions this study is aiming to answer is whether short term fasting diet influences chemotherary - induced toxicities and if it is easy to be implemented.