Venetoclax or Placebo in Combination With Reduced-Intensity Conditioning Hematopoietic Cell (Bone Marrow/Blood Stem Cell) Transplant and as Maintenance Therapy After Transplant in Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia (A MyeloMATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II MyeloMATCH treatment trial compares the effect of adding venetoclax or placebo to reduced intensity conditioning chemotherapy with fludarabine and busulfan or melphalan, with or without total body irradiation, followed by hematopoietic stem cell transplant and either venetoclax or placebo maintenance therapy after transplant, for the treatment of patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Giving chemotherapy and total body irradiation before a donor stem cell transplant helps kill cancer cells in the body and helps make room in the patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells) to grow. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into a patient, they may help the patient's bone marrow make more healthy cells and platelets and may help destroy any remaining cancer cells. Adding venetoclax to conditioning therapy before, and giving it as maintenance therapy after, a hematopoietic stem cell transplant may be a more effective treatment option than the usual approach in patients with AML.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Busulfan|PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Melphalan|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Placebo Administration|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation|DRUG: Venetoclax
Event free survival (EFS), MRD positivity is defined as \>= 0.1% leukemic blasts by MyeloMatch flow cytometry. Day 100 is defined as 100 days (day +100 +/- 10 days) after hematopoietic cell infusion (day 0). The day 100 EFS rates will be compared between venetoclax versus placebo arms using a using a two-sided log-rank test., From randomization to minimal residual disease (MRD) persistence, MRD relapse, morphologic relapse, or death from any cause, assessed up to day +100
MRD conversion rate, Corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals will be estimated at 30 days. Proportions will be compared using Fisher's test or Chi-square test. The analysis will be done within each cohort., At day +30|EFS, Kaplan-Meier estimates and their corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals will be estimated at 12 months. The analysis will be done within each cohort., From the time of randomization to relapse or death, assessed at 12 months|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each treatment., From randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Relapse free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each treatment., From randomization or re-randomization to morphologic relapse or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Non relapse mortality, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for each treatment., From randomization to death from any cause other than morphologic relapse, assessed up to 10 years|Cumulative incidence of morphologic relapse, From the date of achievement of a remission until the date morphologic relapse, assessed up to 10 years|Incidence of acute graft versus host disease (GVHD), Gray's test was used to assess the difference between venetoclax and placebo arms., From date of randomization until date of death with acute GVHD|Incidence of chronic GVHD, Gray's test was used to assess the difference between venetoclax and placebo arms., From date of randomization until date of death with chronic GVHD|Time of neutrophil engraftment, Defined as the first of three successive days with absolute neutrophil count ≥ 0.5 × 10\^9/L after post-transplantation nadir., Up to 10 years|Time of platelet engraftment, Defined as the first of seven consecutive days with platelet count 20 × 10\^9/L or higher, in the absence of platelet transfusion for preceding seven days., Up to 10 years|Incidence of adverse events, Frequency and severity of adverse events and tolerability for each treatment strategy group will be summarized using descriptive statistics. As per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, the term toxicity is defined as adverse events that are classified as either possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns. Will also assess tolerability through assessing the number of patients who require dose modifications and/or dose delays, and the proportion of patients who go off treatment due to adverse events. Further, toxicity and tolerability measures will be assessed by treatment course., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if venetoclax combined with reduced-intensity conditioned allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation improves 100-day event-free survival relative to placebo in adults with AML in first complete remission (complete remission \[CR\] or complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery \[CRi\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the post-transplant 30-day and 12-month event-free survival (EFS) rates in venetoclax and placebo arms.

II. To determine the post-transplant 12-month EFS in patients with minimal/measurable residual disease (MRD)-positive status first complete remission at transplant in venetoclax and placebo arms.

III. To determine the post-transplant 100-day and 12-month overall survival (OS) rate in venetoclax and placebo arms.

IV. To determine the post-transplant 100-day and 12-month cumulative incidence rates (CIR) of morphologic relapse in venetoclax and placebo arms.

V. To determine the post-transplant 100-day and 12-month non-relapse mortality (NRM) rates in venetoclax and placebo arms.

VI. To determine the post-transplant 12-month relapse-free survival rate (RFS), OS, cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR), and cumulative incidence of NRM from start of maintenance in venetoclax and placebo arms.

VII. To determine the post-transplant 100-day and 12-month cumulative incidence of grade 2-4 acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) and 12-month cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD.

VIII. To determine neutrophil engraftment at day 30 and platelet engraftment at days 30 and 60 post-transplant.

IX. To determine the incidence of primary and secondary graft failure within 12 months of hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT).

X. To assess toxicity and tolerability of the combination of reduced intensity conditioned allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation and venetoclax.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the post-transplant 30-day MRD clearance rates in venetoclax and placebo arms.

II. To assess patterns of immune reconstitution per standard of care (SOC) site testing for venetoclax and placebo arms.

III. To assess patterns of marrow and peripheral blood chimerism per SOC site testing for venetoclax and placebo arms.

IV. To assess graft-versus-host relapse-free survival for venetoclax and placebo arms.

V. To assess clinical flow and genetic MRD concordance rate (using Myelomatch available MRD tools) and to associate MRD negativity with clinical outcomes for venetoclax and placebo arms.

VI. Compare rate of cytokine release syndrome after hematopoietic cell infusion. (Cohort 2 only)

OUTLINE: Patients with matched donors are randomized to conditioning 1A or 1B. Patients with haploidentical or mismatched unrelated donors are randomized to conditioning 2A or 2B.

CONDITIONING 1A: Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days -10 to -2, fludarabine intravenously (IV) on days -6 or -5 to -2 and busulfan IV on days -3 to -2 or twice daily (BID) on days -5 to -2 or melphalan IV on day -2. Patients then receive hematopoietic cell transplant IV on day 0. Treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONDITIONING 1B: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days -10 to -2, fludarabine IV on days -6 or -5 to -2 and busulfan IV on days -3 to -2 or BID on days -5 to -2 or melphalan IV on day -2. Patients then receive hematopoietic cell transplant IV on day 0. Treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONDITIONING 2A: Patients receive venetoclax PO QD on days -10 to -2, melphalan IV on day -6, fludarabine IV on days -5 to -2 and undergo total body irradiation once on day -1. Patients then receive hematopoietic cell transplant IV on day 0. Treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONDITIONING 2B: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days -10 to -2, melphalan IV on day -6, fludarabine IV on days -5 to -2 and undergo total body irradiation once on day -1. Patients then receive hematopoietic cell transplant IV on day 0. Treatment is given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: All patients without evidence of relapse at day +100 are re-randomized to maintenance I or II.

MAINTENANCE I: Patients receive venetoclax PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 1 year post transplant (9 cycles) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 1 year post transplant (9 cycles) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo chest x-ray, echocardiography or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) during screening, and bone marrow biopsy and blood, urine and buccal swab collection throughout the study. Patients may also undergo positron emission tomography (PET) scan and/or computed tomography (CT) scan throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for up to 1 year and then every 6 months for up to 10 years.