Components of Social Functioning in Survivors of Pediatric Brain Tumors
Children with brain tumors are at risk for a number of psychological late effects, including neurocognitive and social deficits. This observational study focuses on assessment of social functioning, including social-cognitive and neurocognitive abilities, in survivors of pediatric brain tumors. This study will also assess the influence of medical factors, including diagnosis and age at diagnosis, on social functioning.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: Examine the impact of social-cognitive and neurocognitive abilities on social functioning in survivors of pediatric brain tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE: Assess the influence of medical factors such as diagnosis and age at diagnosis on the social functioning of survivors of pediatric brain tumors.
Brain Tumor, Pediatric|Medulloblastoma, Pediatric
Significant predictors of social-cognitive and neurocognitive abilities on social functioning, The primary outcome is social interaction which will be assessed via a Daily Diary that documents an individual's positive and negative social interactions, averaged over 7 days. All participants will be evaluated for the primary outcome, and descriptive statistics will be estimated to characterize the sample across all measures., From enrollment through up to 7 days later
Assessment of social and neurocognitive functioning in survivors of pediatric brain tumors who are least two years post-therapy and between 8 and 12 years of age will be included. Participants will be recruited from two tumor types: 1) medulloblastoma, and 2) other brain tumors that were not treated with craniospinal irradiation. Upon enrollment, participants will complete standard psychological questionnaires used to evaluate both performance-based and self-report measures of social and neurocognitive functioning. Parents will complete questionnaires. Families will be asked for permission to contact teachers to complete additional questionnaires. Children will identify their best friend as part of their questionnaires and will be asked permission to contact this friend to complete two questionnaires. Finally, children will be asked to complete an online daily diary of social interactions for seven days.