Neoadjuvant Nab-Paclitaxel and S-1 in Resectable Pancreatic Cancer
There were limited data for nab-paclitaxel and S-1 in pancreatic cancer. To explore the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant nab-paclitaxel combined with S-1 in patients with resectable pancreatic cancer (stage II and partial stage III defined according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network definitions ), we designed this study. This study was a single-arm single center prospective phase II clinical study. A total of 72 subjects who meet the criteria will receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy of nab-paclitaxel and S-1 prior to pancreatectomy. Response was reported according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guidelines (RECIST, version 1.1) .The primary endpoint is objective response rate. The secondary endpoints include R0/R1 resection rate, disease free survival, overall survival and safety.
Pancreatic Neoplasms
DRUG: Nab paclitaxel and S-1
Objective response rate, Percentage of patients who achieve partial response (PR) or complete response(CR) based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST1.1), From date of first dose until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first,assessed up to 24 months
R0/R1 resection rate, proportion of patients who achieved R0/R1 resection, 2 years|Disease free survival, The time between operation and the relapse or metastasis of tumors or death, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or metastasis, assessed up to 12 months|Overall survival, The time between randomization and death from any cause or lost to follow-up, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or censored at the last day that the patient is documented to be alive, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months
There were limited data for nab-paclitaxel and S-1 in pancreatic cancer. To explore the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant nab-paclitaxel combined with S-1 in patients with resectable pancreatic cancer (stage II and partial stage III defined according to the National Comprehensive Cancer Network definitions ), we designed this study. This study was a single-arm single center prospective phase II clinical study. A total of 72 subjects who meet the criteria will receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy of nab-paclitaxel and S-1 prior to pancreatectomy. Response was reported according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guidelines (RECIST, version 1.1) .The primary endpoint is objective response rate. The secondary endpoints include R0/R1 resection rate, disease free survival, overall survival and safety.