ErbB2 Over-expressing Metastatic Breast Cancer Study Using Paclitaxel, Trastuzumab, and Lapatinib
This study was originally designed as a Phase III randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study to assess the safety and tolerability, and efficacy of paclitaxel plus trastuzumab plus lapatinib compared with paclitaxel plus trastuzumab plus placebo in women with ErbB2 overexpressing metastatic breast cancer. The planned study was a two stage design with an initial open-label safety stage to be conducted in approximately 65 subjects followed by a randomized phase conducted in a further 700 subjects. The open-label part of the study sequentially enrolled three cohorts with patients receiving a different dose combination of paclitaxel, trastuzumab and lapatinib. Following poor recruitment rate in the open label stage, the randomized stage of the study was terminated, thus no subjects were enrolled into the randomization stage.
Neoplasms, Breast
DRUG: lapatinib|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: trastuzumab
Extent of Exposure to Lapatinib, Trastuzumab and Paclitaxel by Mean/Standard Deviation, Extent of exposure is defined as the duration of the treatment administered during the study. The mean duration of exposure to lapatinib, trastuzumab and paclitaxel is calculated as the number of weeks between the start and end of treatment., From the date of the first dose of the investigational product to end of study, up to approx. 14 years|Extent of Exposure to Lapatinib, Trastuzumab and Paclitaxel by Median/Min-Max, Extent of exposure is defined as the duration of the treatment administered during the study. The mean duration of exposure to lapatinib, trastuzumab and paclitaxel is calculated as the number of weeks between the start and end of treatment., From the date of the first dose of the investigational product to end of study, up to approx. 14 years|Number of Participants With Any Adverse Event (AE) or Serious Adverse Event (SAE), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life-threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect. Medical or scientific judgment was exercised in deciding whether reporting was appropriate in other situations. Refer to the general AE/SAE module for a list of non-serious AEs and SAEs., From the date of the first dose of investigational product until 30 days after the last dose of investigational product, up to approx. 14 years|Number of Participants Who Died Due to Any Cause, Number of participants who died due to any cause throughout the study including off-treatment deaths (on-treatment deaths are reported for the All-Cause Mortality in the AE section)., From the date of the first dose of investigational product until last patient last visit, up to approximately 14 years|Number of Events of Diarrhea With the Indicated Characteristics, Events of diarrhea are characterized as serious, related to investigational product, leading to withdrawal from the study and fatal. Participants could have been counted in more than one category., From the date of the first dose of investigational product until 30 days after the last dose of investigational product, up to approx. 3.5 years|Number of Events of Rash With the Indicated Characteristics, Events of rash are characterized as serious, related to investigational product, leading to withdrawal from the study and fatal. Participants could have been counted in more than one category., From the date of the first dose of investigational product until 30 days after the last dose of investigational product, up to approx. 3.5 years|Number of Participants With the Maximum Toxicity Grade for the Indicated Clinical Hematology Parameters, Blood samples for clinical laboratory evaluation were taken at Baseline prior to the administration of investigational product and thereafter at each scheduled visit. Haematology parameters included haemoglobin, total white blood cell count (WBC), neutrophils, lymphocytes and platelets. Hematology data was summarized by the National Cancer Institute's Common toxicity criteria for adverse events (NCI CTCAE) toxicity grade (Version 3.0). Grade 1, mild; Grade 2, moderate; Grade 3, severe; Grade 4, life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5, death., Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and 30 day follow-up, up to approx. 3.5 years|Number of Participants With the Maximum Toxicity Grade for the Indicated Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples for clinical laboratory evaluation were taken at Baseline prior to the administration of investigational product and thereafter at each scheduled visit. Clinical chemistry parameters included values \> upper limit of normal (ULN)=Hyper; values \< lower limit of normal (LLN)=Hypo of sodium (Hypernatraemia and Hyponatraemia), potassium (Hyperkalaemia and Hypokalaemia), calcium (Hypercalcaemia and Hypocalcaemia), glucose (Hyperglycaemia and Hyperglycaemia), creatinine (if \>2 milligram per deciliter \[mg/dL\]), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), alkaline phophatase, total bilirubin (if available bilirubin fractionation is recommended if the total bilirubin is \> twice of ULN), and albumin. Clinical chemistry data was summarized by National Cancer Institute's Common toxicity criteria for adverse events (NCI CTCAE) toxicity grade (Version 3.0). Grade 1, mild; Grade 2, moderate; Grade 3, severe; Grade 4, life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5, death., Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and 30 day follow-up, up to approx. 3.5 years|Number of Events of Hepatotoxicity With the Indicated Characteristics, Events of hepatotoxicity are characterized as serious, related to investigational product, leading to withdrawal from the study and fatal. Participants could have been counted in more than one category., From the date of the first dose of investigational product until 30 days after the last dose of investigational product, up to approx. 3.5 years|Change From Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure and Diastolic Blood Pressure at the Indicated Time Points, Blood pressure measurement included systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) at Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and at the 30 day follow-up visit. Change from Baseline was calculated as the post-Baseline value minus the Baseline value., Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and 30 day follow-up, up to approx. 3.5 years|Change From Baseline in Heart Rate at the Indicated Time Points, Heart rate was measured at Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and at the 30 day follow-up visit. Change from Baseline was calculated as the post-Baseline value minus the Baseline value., Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and 30 day follow-up, up to approx. 3.5 years|Change From Baseline in Body Temperature at the Indicated Time Points, Body temperature was measured at Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and at the 30 day follow-up visit. Change from Baseline was calculated as the post-Baseline value minus the Baseline value., Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and 30 day follow-up, up to approx. 3.5 years|Number of Participants With at Least 1 Event of Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction Decrease With the Indicated Characteristics, Events of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decrease were based on the number of participants who had an actual event and was characterized as serious, related to investigational product, leading to withdrawal from the study and/or fatal., Baseline and every 8 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and 30 day follow-up, up to approx. 3.5 years|Number of Participants With the Indicated Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status Value, The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status scales and grades/criteria are used to assess how a participant's disease is progressing, to assess how the disease affects the daily living abilities of the participant, and to determine appropriate treatment and prognosis. Grade 0, fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction. Grade 1, restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work. Grade 2, ambulatory and capable of all selfcare, but unable to carry out any work activities; up and about more than 50% of waking hours. Grade 3, capable of only limited selfcare; confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours. Grade 4, completely disabled; cannot carry on any selfcare; totally confined to bed or chair. Grade 5, dead., Baseline and every 4 weeks thereafter up to withdrawal/study completion and 30 day follow-up, up to approx. 3.5 years|Number of Participants Who Received Any Concomitant Medications During the Study Period, Number of participants who received any concomitant medication along with study drugs (lapatinib, trastuzumab and paclitaxel) were counted during the treatment period., withdrawal/study completion, up to approx. 3.5 years|Overall Response (OR): Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response (OR) of Confirmed Complete Response (CR) or Confirmed Partial Response (PR) as Assessed by the Investigator, OR is defined as the number of participants achieving either a CR or PR, per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). The best OR is defined as the best response recorded from the start of treatment until progressive disease (PD)/recurrence. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions (TLs) and non-TLs. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL(s), as assessed by the IRC. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. Responses were confirmed at subsequent assessments made \>=28 days after the original response. Participants with an unknown or missing response are treated as non-responders., From the date of the first dose of investigational product to end of study, up to approx. 7 years
Time to Response as Assessed by the Investigator, Time to Response was defined for subjects who had a confirmed CR or PR as the time from first dose until first documented evidence of partial or complete tumour response (whichever status was recorded first). CR is defined as the disappearance of all TLs \& non-TLs. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL(s). PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs., From the date of the first dose of investigational product until the first documented evidence of a PR or CR, up to approx. 7 years|Duration of Response (DoR), as Assessed by the Investigator, DoR is defined for the subset of participants who had a confirmed CR (disappearance of all TLs and non-TLs) or PR (\>=30% decrease in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the Baseline sum LD and no PD, or complete resolution of TLs and the persistence of one or more non-TL\[s\]) as the time from the first documented evidence of a CR or PR until the first documentation of radiological PD or death due to breast cancer, if sooner. PD is defined as \>=20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. For participants who did not progress or die, DoR was censored on the date of the last radiological scan. If a participant had only a Baseline visit or did not have a date of a radiological scan that was later than the date of initiation of anti-cancer therapy, DoR was censored at the start date of treatment., From the first documented evidence of a PR or CR until the earlier of the date of disease progression or the date of death due to breast cancer, up to approx. 7 years|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Benefit (Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), and Stable Disease [SD] for at Least 24 Weeks) as Assessed by Investigator, Clinical benefit is defined as the percentage of participants achieving either a CR or PR or SD (neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions), taking as reference, the smallest sum LD since the treatment started) for at least 24 weeks. This was based on confirmed responses from the investigator assessment of clinical benefit., From the date of the first dose of investigational product until the first documented evidence of a PR or CR or SD until the earlier of the date of disease progression or the date of death due to breast cancer, up to approx. 7 years|Progression-free Survival as Assessed by the Investigator, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization until the earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause, if sooner. Disease progression was based on the investigator's assessments of the objective evidence (e.g., radiological scans and medical photographs). For participants who do not progress, or die, progression-free survival was censored at the time of the last investigator assessed radiological scan preceding the initiation of any alternative anti-cancer therapy. Progression-free survival was summarized using Kaplan-Meier curves., From the date of the first dose of investigational product until the earlier of the date of disease progression or death due to any cause, up to approx. 7 years
The primary objective of this study was to evaluate and compare time to progression (TTP). The Primary objective for open label phase was to determine the safety and tolerability of lapatinib when administered in combination with both paclitaxel and trastuzumab. The study first enrolled an open label safety cohort of 20 patients to assess the tolerability of the triplet combination. This was a 1 arm, 3 cohort study stage.

Open-label Phase: Patients were sequentially enrolled into three cohorts and received an open-label combination of paclitaxel, trastuzumab and lapatinib: Cohort 1 received paclitaxel 80mg/m2 IV weekly for 3 weeks of a 4 week cycle, trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV loading dose and 2 mg/kg IV weekly, and lapatinib 1000 mg PO daily. Cohort 2 received paclitaxel 70mg/m2 IV weekly for 3 weeks of a 4 week cycle, trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV loading dose and 2 mg/kg IV weekly, and lapatinib 1000 mg PO daily. Cohort 3 paclitaxel 80mg/m2 IV weekly for 3 weeks of a 4 week cycle, trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV loading dose and 2 mg/kg IV weekly, and lapatinib 750 mg PO daily.

Randomized Phase: was terminated following the poor recruitment rate in the open-label safety stage. No subjects were enrolled into the randomization stage.

In summary, at approximately 3.5 years the primary analysis which included demographics, efficacy and safety were conducted; at approximately 7 years protocol amendment 7 cancelled collection of efficacy endpoints, and only key safety endpoints were to be collected; the final analysis was performed at approximately 14 years.