Accelerated Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy Immediately Before Surgery in Treating Patients With Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
This pilot phase 0 trial studies accelerated hypofractionated radiation therapy immediately before surgery in treating patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (cancer in the thin layer of tissue that covers the lungs and lines the interior wall of the chest cavity). Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Hypofractionated radiation therapy is a type of radiation therapy in which the total prescribed dose of radiation is divided into fewer but larger doses as compared to conventional radiation therapy. Giving accelerated hypofractionated radiation therapy immediately before surgery may improve survival, and may also reduce side effects experienced by patients with pleural mesothelioma.
Pleural Epithelioid Mesothelioma|Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Ability to Accrue Sufficient Patients to Draw Conclusions About Endpoints in a Timely and Expedient Manner, No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to 1 year|Incidence of Acute and Subacute Toxicity Defined as Grade 4 or 5 Adverse Events as Assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to 3 months|Incidence of Chronic Toxicity as Assessed by the NCI CTCAE Version 4.0, No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to 5 years post-treatment
Disease Specific Survival (DSS), Cumulative incidence approach will be used to estimate DSS. No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to 5 years post-treatment|Local Control (LC), Cumulative incidence approach will be used to estimate the local failure rates. No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to 5 years post-treatment|Overall Survival (OS), No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to 5 years post-treatment|Pathologic Complete Response Rate (pCR), No data displayed because Outcome Measure has zero total participants analyzed., Up to 5 years post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility and toxicity (both acute and chronic) of accelerated hypofractionated neoadjuvant helical intensity modulated radiation therapy prior to pleurectomy/decortication for malignant pleural mesothelioma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pathologic complete response rate (pCR). II. To determine the tumor local control rate (LC). III. To determine the malignant pleural mesothelioma disease specific survival (DSS).

IV. To determine the overall survival (OS). V. To assess transforming growth factor beta (TGF-B), interleukin (IL)-1, and IL-6 levels as predictive biomarkers for treatment induced tissue injury.

VI. To assess the changes in the postoperative pleural immunological milieu in terms of chemo- and cytokine expression.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 5 fractions of accelerated hypofractionated intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) over 1 week with simultaneous integrated boost to gross disease. Patients then undergo pleurectomy/decortication within 14 days after completion of IMRT.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, and then every 3 months for 5 years.