Study Assessing the Efficacy and Safety of Alpelisib + Nab-paclitaxel in Subjects With Advanced TNBC Who Carry Either a PIK3CA Mutation or Have PTEN Loss
The purpose of this study was to determine whether treatment with alpelisib in combination with nab-paclitaxel is safe and effective in subjects with advanced triple negative breast cancer (aTNBC) who carry either a PIK3CA mutation (Study Part A) or have PTEN loss (Study Part B1) or PTEN loss without PIK3CA mutation (Study Part B2)
Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: alpelisib|DRUG: placebo|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Investigator Assessment in Study Part A, PFS was defined as time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed via a local radiology assessment according to RECIST 1.1. PD=At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm\^2. PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment, if no PFS event was observed prior to the analysis cut-off date., Once all participants have completed at least 6 months of study treatment or have discontinued from study treatment, up to 35 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Based on Local Radiology Assessments in Participants With Measurable Disease at Baseline in Study Part B1, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1. BOR was defined as the best response recorded from the start of the study treatment until progressive disease (PD)/recurrence. CR=Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR= At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters; PD= At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Up to 6 months
Overall Survival in Study Part A, Overall survival is defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause., Up to 66 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) With Confirmed Response in Study Part A, ORR with confirmed response was the percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR), as per local review and according to RECIST 1.1. BOR was defined as the best response recorded from the start of the study treatment until progressive disease (PD)/recurrence. CR=Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR= At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters; PD= At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Once all participants have completed at least 6 months of study treatment or have discontinued from study treatment, up to 35 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) With Confirmed Response in Study Part A, Clinical benefit rate (CBR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR), or partial response (PR) or an overall lesion response of stable disease (SD), lasting as per local review, for a duration of at least 24 weeks. CR, PR and SD are defined according to RECIST 1.1 based on investigator's assessment. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Once all participants have completed at least 6 months of study treatment or have discontinued from study treatment, up to 35 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) With Confirmed Response in Study Part B1, Clinical benefit rate (CBR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR), or partial response (PR) or an overall lesion response of stable disease (SD), lasting as per local review, for a duration of at least 24 weeks. CR, PR and SD are defined according to RECIST 1.1 based on investigator's assessment. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Up to 6 months|Time to Response (TTR) in Study Part A, Time to response (TTR) was defined as the time from the date of randomization/enrolment to the first documented response of either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), which must be subsequently confirmed (although date of initial response is used, not date of confirmation). CR and PR were based on tumor response data as per local review and according to RECIST 1.1. CR=Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR= At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Once all participants have completed at least 6 months of study treatment or have discontinued from study treatment, up to 35 months|Time to Response (TTR) in Study Part B1, Time to response (TTR) was defined as the time from the date of randomization/enrolment to the first documented response of either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), which must be subsequently confirmed (although date of initial response was used, not date of confirmation). CR and PR were based on tumor response data as per local review and according to RECIST 1.1. CR=Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR= At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to 6 months|Duration of Response (DOR) With Confirmed Response in Study Part A, Duration of response (DOR) with confirmed response only applied to participants whose best overall response (BOR) was confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1 based on tumor response data per local review. The start date was the date of first documented response of CR or PR (i.e. the start date of response, not the date when response was confirmed), and the end date was defined as the date of the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to underlying cancer. CR=Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR= At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Once all participants have completed at least 6 months of study treatment or have discontinued from study treatment, up to 35 months|Duration of Response (DOR) With Confirmed Response in Study Part B1, Duration of response (DOR) with confirmed response only applied to participants whose best overall response (BOR) was confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1 based on tumor response data per local review. The start date was the date of first documented response of CR or PR (i.e. the start date of response, not the date when response was confirmed), and the end date was defined as the date of the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to underlying cancer. CR=Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR= At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 20 months|Overall Survival in Study Part B1, Overall survival for Part B1 was defined as the number of participants who were alive at the end of the post-treatment period., Up to approximately 26 months.|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Investigator Assessment in Study Part B1, PFS was defined as time from the date of enrolment to the date of the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed via a local radiology assessment according to RECIST 1.1. PD=At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm\^2. PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment, if no PFS event was observed prior to the analysis cut-off date., Up to 6 months|PFS Based on Local Radiology Assessments Using RECIST 1.1 Criteria for Participants by PIK3CA Mutation Status Measured in Baseline Circulating Tumor Deoxyribonucleic Acid (ctDNA) in Study Part A, PFS in participants with PIK3CA mutation as measured in ctDNA. PFS was defined as time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause., Once all participants have completed at least 6 months of study treatment or have discontinued from study treatment, up to 35 months|Post-Hoc: All Collected Deaths, On-treatment deaths due to any cause were collected from first dose of study medication to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment. Post-treatment survival follow-up deaths were collected from Day 31 after last dose of study medication to the data cut-off date., On-treatment deaths: Up to approximately 28 months (Part A) or approximately 17 months (Part B1). Post-treatment survival follow-up deaths: Up to approximately 7 additional months (Part A) or approximately 9 additional months (Part B1).
The recruitment of Part A was halted on 11-Nov-2022 due to slow recruitment. Since Part B1 did not meet its primary objective for confirmed overall response rate, the Part B2 was not initiated, and the recruitment was halted for the entire study.

Upon confirming either PIK3CA mutation and/or PTEN loss status, advanced TNBC participants meeting all other eligibility criteria were assigned to either Part A (PIK3CA mutation regardless of PTEN loss) or Part B1 (PTEN loss with PIK3CA unknown or non-mutant).

In Part A, participants were randomized a 1:1 to receive either:

* alpelisib 300 mg daily orally + nab-paclitaxel 100 mg/m\^2 intravenously (IV) on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle or
* placebo + nab-paclitaxel 100 mg/m\^2 IV on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle.

In Part B1, participants received alpelisib 300 mg daily orally + nab-paclitaxel 100 mg/m\^2 IV on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle.