First-in-Human Dose Escalation Study of XMT-1536 in Cancers Likely to Express NaPi2b
First-in-human, Phase 1b/2 safety study of the antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) XMT-1536 (upifitamab rilsodotin) administered as an intravenous infusion once every four weeks. Patients with tumor types likely to express NaPi2b were enrolled in dose escalation. Patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and non-small cell lung cancer (adenocarcinoma subtype) were enrolled in the expansion segment of this study. In addition to safety assessments, the pharmacokinetics of the drug were assessed along with ADC activity.
Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: upifitamab rilsodotin
DES: Maximum tolerated dose or recommended Phase 2 dose, Evaluate adverse events and concomitant medication use after XMT-1536 (upifitamab rilsodotin) doses, Up to 36 weeks, from the date of first dose until unacceptable side effects or a dose-limiting toxicity is met|DES and EXP: Safety and Tolerability, Evaluate incidence and severity of adverse events, First dose up until 30 days after study termination
DES: Anti-neoplastic effects of XMT-1536 (upifitamab rilsodotin), Monitor tumor size, Every 6 weeks for up to 36 weeks
This is a multi-center study of XMT-1536 (upifitamab rilsodotin) in patients with tumors likely to express NaPi2b, focusing on patients with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer and non-small cell lung cancer, adenocarcinoma subtype. XMT-1536 (upifitamab rilsodotin) was administered as an intravenous infusion once every four weeks. The DES segment studied small groups of patients who received increased doses. A Safety Review Committee was established to review the data from each dose level before moving to the next higher dose. The dose escalation cohort has ended and is no longer enrolling patients. All adverse events were graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria version (CTCAE v5.0). Throughout the study, pharmacokinetics were measured using proprietary assays developed by Mersana. Anti-cancer activity were measured via RECIST.