PET/MR in Assessing Response to Neoadjuvant Radiation Therapy in the Tx of High Grade Sarcomas
Purpose: To assess the utility of PET/MR in assessing response to neoadjuvant radiation therapy in the treatment of high grade sarcomas.

Participants: Adult patients with potentially curable high grade sarcomas that are being treated at UNC with neoadjuvant radiation therapy followed by potentially curative surgical resection.

Procedures (methods): Patients who are being treated for potentially curable high grade sarcomas with neoadjuvant radiation therapy followed by surgical resection undergo pre-treatment, mid-treatment, and post-treatment PET/MR and the response to treatment is assessed by evaluating change in size and FDG avidity. Patients then undergo curative intent resection and are followed. Their pathology is reviewed for treatment affect as is assessed by percent necrosis, size, and resection margins. Patients are followed and assessed for recurrence.
Sarcoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PET/MR
PET Activity Estimates at Midpoint of Treatment as Compared to Baseline, Primary endpoint is the determination of differences among response groups in PET activity estimates from PET/MR imaging at the midpoint of treatment as compared to baseline. The measure is computed as the change in mean SUV from the baseline PET-MR scan to the scan at the end of the second week of therapy. Treatment response will be determined on final pathological evaluation of the resected specimens in patients who undergo curative intent surgery after neoadjuvant radiation in high grade sarcomas. This will be measured by a single sarcoma specialized pathologist and will be categorized as to the percentage of necrosis, with \>90% necrosis considered to be complete response., At the end of the second week of radiation therapy, a mid-treatment PET/MR is obtained.
PET Activity Estimates at Endpoint of Treatment as Compared to Baseline, A secondary endpoint is the determination of differences among response groups in PET activity estimates from PET/MR imaging at the endpoint of treatment as compared to baseline. The measure is computed as the change in mean SUV from the baseline PET-MR scan to the scan taken four weeks after completion of therapy., A post-treatment PET/MR is obtained at 4 weeks post radiation.
Investigators propose that a PET/MR study at the midpoint of radiation treatment will accurately predict which patients will respond to neoadjuvant radiation therapy. The study will enroll patients with high-grade sarcomas as identified by preoperative biopsy that will be treated with neoadjuvant radiation into the study. The standard of care for these patients is to receive MRI scans at pre-treatment and post-treatment time points. Patients in this study will receive their standard pre- and post-treatment imaging in the form of PET/MR, with PET conducted simultaneously with MRI, and within the context of the study they will also receive one additional PET/MR at the end of the second week of therapy. These patients will then receive curative intent surgery and be followed in the usual fashion and assessed for local and/or distant recurrent disease. The pathology will be assessed for completeness of resection and percent of necrosis. On the basis of pathology, patients will be classified as responsive or non-responsive to therapy. Quantitative measures from PET and MRI will be computed: the change in PET tumor-mean standardized uptake value (SUV) and tumor size as assessed by MRI, from pre- to post-treatment, and from pre- to mid-treatment. The image-based quantitative measures will be correlated with the pathology outcomes to evaluate predictability of the image measures for treatment response. Patients will be followed with the intent of further correlating image measures with clinical outcomes.