Pre-emptive Cycline Treatment on Cetuximab Induced Skin Toxicity in Colorectal Cancer
The aim of this study is to test the role of cycline in the prevention of acne-like skin rash in metastatic colorectal patients treated with Cetuximab and intensified FOLFIRI.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic|Skin Toxicity
DRUG: Doxycycline|DRUG: Cetuximab
reduction of Grade > or = 2 acne-like skin rash by 30%, Skin tolerance will be assessed by a dermatologist at each cycle and NCI CTCAE v4.0 will be use for grading. Skin standardized photographs will be done at every cycle and a central double blind review wil be planned. Time to first occurence of grade \> or =2 skin toxicity will be assessed, and specificity., 6 weeks of pre-emptive cycline treatment
skin tolerance assessment, Skin tolerance will be assessed weekly by a dermatologist from C1 to C3, and biweekly from C4 to C6 and NCI CTCAE v4.0 will be use for grading. All grade \> or = 1 skin and hair/nails toxicities will be reported. Time to most severe skin toxicity will be assessed. Quality of life questionnaires with a skin interest (DLQI) will be evaluated at baseline and at each cycle., Until the end of Cetuximab treatment|Non skin toxicities assessment, For non skin toxicities, only grade \> or = 3 will be reported., Until the end of chemotherapy treatment|Efficacy Objective Response (OR) assessment, Efficacy OR (Complete Response + Partial Response) will be assessed by the investigator with usual tumoral evaluation. Tumoral evaluation will be assessed with the same exam throughout the trial., Until the end of chemotherapy treatment|Biological correlation with response and survival, Biological correlation with response and survival will be tested for KRAS, BRAF, PI3K,PTEN, epiregulin, amphiregulin, IGF1, Syndecan-1, UBE2C, EGFR polymorphism., 3 years|Time To Progression and Overall Survival, 3 years|Resectability rate, Until the end of chemotherapy treatment
Cetuximab, an Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) inhibitor, has shown to improve FOLFIRI efficacy up to 59.3% OR, in wild KRAS patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Skin toxicity occurs in 81.6% of patients as an acne-like skin rash developed on the face and the trunk inducing pain, decreasing quality of life and drug compliance. Over 104 patients enrolled in a phase II clinical trial sponsored by Center Paul Papin (NCT 00 559741), a grade \> or = 2 cetuximab-acneiform rash occured in 51 patients (49%). In this trial Cetuximab was combined with a FOLFIRI intensified (5-FU intensification based on pharmacokinetics and pharmacogenetic studies of UGT1A1 status and DPD). Until now, no pre-emptive skin toxicity treatment with cycline has been demonstrated. Because of cycline's anti inflammatory properties and their use in inflammatory acne, cycline could prevent cetuximab-induced skin rash. In a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled phase III trial, Jatoi et al., failed to highlight any cycline effect on 61 patients. On the other hand, the STEPP study (95 pts) showed the impact of cycline to prevent panitumumab related skin toxicities. Our primary objective is to reduce the incidence of grade \> or = 2 acne-like skin rash by 30% with a 6 weeks pre-emptive cycline treatment in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer undergoing cetuximab therapy.