Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Cancer of the Cervix
This phase II trial is to see if bevacizumab works in treating patients who have persistent or recurrent cancer of the cervix. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them.
Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival Greater Than 6 Months, Whether or not the patient survived progression-free for at least 6 months., Every other 3-week treatment cycle for 6 months|Maximum Severity of Each Adverse Event Per Patient, Graded According to Common Toxicity Criteria Version 2.0, The maximum severity of each adverse event per patient, graded according to Common Toxicity Criteria version 2.0, is reported. Events were restricted to those reported as at least possibly related to study drug., Every cycle and 30 days after the end of treatment. (average 5 months)
Tumor Response, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., Every other cycle during treatment and at the time of treatment discontinuation. (average 5 months)|Overall Survival, The observed length of life from entry into the study to death or the date of last contact., From study entry to death or last contact, up to 5 years.|Duration of Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle during treatment, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually for the next 5 years|Performance Status, Performance Status 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction Performance Status 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of light or sedentary nature, e.g., light housework, office work Performance Status 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours., Baseline|Age at Enrollment, Baseline
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the cytostatic antitumor activity of bevacizumab, in terms of 6-month progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with persistent or recurrent squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this drug in these patients. III. Estimate the distribution of PFS and overall survival for patients treated with this drug.

IV. Determine the frequency of clinical response (partial and complete) in patients treated with this drug.

V. Determine the role of age and initial performance status as prognostic factors in patients treated with this drug.

VI. Determine whether biological and imaging markers are associated with clinical efficacy of this drug, such as 6-month PFS, in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 19-51 patients will be accrued for this study within 11-38 months.