Oral Topotecan to Treat Recurrent or Persistent Solid Tumors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of oral topotecan and how well the chemotherapy is tolerated (any side effects) when it is given in different dose levels. The study will also collect information on how the medication is being broken down and absorbed in the body and how quality of life is affected during treatment.
Tumors
DRUG: Oral Topotecan
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Single Agent Metronomic Oral Topotecan, The MTD of metronomic oral topotecan was determined using a standard 3+3 dose escalation cohort design. The total sample and the number of subjects who receive each dose in this design depends on the frequency of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs)at each dose level. If 0 out of 3 subjects experience a DLT at a given dose level, 3 subjects will be enrolled at the next higher dose level. If greater than or equal to 2 subjects experience a DLT at a given dose level, dose escalation will be stopped. If 1 out of 3 subjects experience a DLT at a given dose level, 3 subjects are enrolled at the same dose level., MTD was assessed during the first cycle of treatment (days 1-28).
Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT), DLTs were assessed using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. This measure reports the number of subjects who experienced DLT at each dose level during the dose finding portion of the study., DLTs were assessed during the first cycle of treatment (days 1-28).|Best Overall Response, Best overall response is defined as the best response across all time points. Response was evaluated via changes from baseline in radiological tumor measurements performed after every two treatment cycles and at the end of treatment or time of disease progression. Response was evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0 guidelines, where complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions; partial response (PR) is \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD) is neither sufficient shrinkage in sum of LD of target lesions to be PR nor increase of \>=20%; Progressive Disease (PD) is the increase in existing lesions or new lesions., Best overall response was assessed after every 8 weeks of treatment and at the end of treatment or time of disease progression, up to 1 year.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of oral topotecan and how well the chemotherapy is tolerated (any side effects) when it is given in different dose levels. The study will also collect information on how the medication is being broken down and absorbed in the body and how quality of life is affected during treatment.