Wide Spectrum Micronutrients Supplementation in Patients with Cancer Related Fatigue During Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Chemotherapy
The goal of this clinical trial is to test the effect of the administration of APPORTAL® in addition to the SoC (recommended physical exercise), in patients with breast cancer, suffering from fatigue during neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* if the food supplement APPORTAL® can be of help in supporting the physiological energy level, against the fatigue symptom in cancer patients undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy;
* if the supplementation with APPORTAL® can optimize the nutritional status, the muscular strength, the quality of life of the patient.

Also, the patients' satisfaction on the product received, the adherence to treatment will be evaluated and the overall safety and tolerability of the study product.

The patients will be asked to perform 3 study visits from baseline to the end of treatment (at 4 and 8 weeks after baseline) and a follow-up visit after 12 weeks from baseline.

The main assessments at each visit will be:

* physical examination, weight, Body Mass Index (BMI), body temperature (°C), heart rate, respiratory frequency, and systolic and diastolic blood pressure;
* previous and concomitant treatments;
* fatigue assessment through BFI questionnaire;
* quality of life through questionnaire SF-12;
* muscular strength (dynamometer)
* Adverse Event check (from Visit 2) Moreover, at visit 1 (baseline) and at visit 3 (end of treatment) a blood sample will be collected to evaluate the blood metabolites.

Telephonic follow-up will be done at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 10 weeks to assess compliance and to recommendations on physical activity and to study treatment (only at 2 and 6 weeks) and tolerability/safety.

Participants will receive the nutrition supplement or the placebo, in addition to the SoC (recommended physical exercise), for 8 weeks.

Researchers will compare Apportal® and Placebo groups to see if the physiological energy level against the fatigue symptom, the nutritional status, the muscular strength, the quality of life of the patient improve after 8 weeks of treatment with APPORTAL® in addition to SoC (recommended physical exercise).
Fatigue|Breast Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: APPOPRTAL®|OTHER: Placebo
The change of fatigue perception by the patient through the BFI questionnaire, The Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) is a questionnaire specifically developed for rapid assessment of CRF. It is a simple, easily administered questionnaire and the fatigue scale (validated in different languages) consists in nine items anticipated by a flag question asking the patient whether she has felt unusually fatigued or tired during the last week. Three items are related to the intensity of fatigue "right now", at its "usual" level and at its "worst" level during the past 24 h using a 0-10 numerical scale (0= no fatigue, 10= fatigue as bad as you can image). Six items measure the interference of fatigue with the patients' life during the past 24 h by a 0-10 numerical scale (0= does not interfere, 10= completely interferes). Higher scores represent to more severe fatigue, Change from baseline to 8 weeks of treatment (Visit 3), in active and placebo groups.
The change of fatigue perception by the patient through the BFI questionnaire, The Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) is a questionnaire specifically developed for rapid assessment of CRF. It is a simple, easily administered questionnaire and the fatigue scale (validated in different languages) consists in nine items anticipated by a flag question asking the patient whether she has felt unusually fatigued or tired during the last week. Three items are related to the intensity of fatigue "right now", at its "usual" level and at its "worst" level during the past 24 h using a 0-10 numerical scale (0= no fatigue, 10= fatigue as bad as you can image). Six items measure the interference of fatigue with the patients' life during the past 24 h by a 0-10 numerical scale (0= does not interfere, 10= completely interferes). Higher scores represent to more severe fatigue, Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in Iron status through hemoglobin assessment, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline, in both the active and placebo groups|Change in Iron status through ferritin assessment, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline, in both the active and placebo groups|Change in Iron status through transferrin saturation assessment, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in nutritional status through albumin assessment, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in nutritional status through assessment of total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in oxidative status through homocysteine assessment, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in oxidative status through uric acid assessment, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in oxidative status through C-Reactive Protein (CRP) assessment, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline in CRP in both the active and placebo groups|Change in serum L-arginina levels, Blood samples of about 5 mL will be collected for the assessment of iron status (hemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation), nutritional markers (albumin, total cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides), oxidative markers (homocysteine, uric acid) and C-Reactive Protein, serum L-arginine levels. Blood samples will be analysed locally by each site laboratory., Change after 8 weeks of study treatment with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Changes in QoL through SF-12 Questionnaire, SF-12 is a self-reported outcome measure assessing the impact of health on an individual's everyday life. It is often used as a quality of life measure.

The SF-12 is a shortened version of it's predecessor, the SF-36 and it was created to reduce the burden of response The SF-12 consists of twelve questions that measure the same eight domains as the SF-36, to assess physical and mental health. Physical health-related domains include General Health (GH), Physical Functioning (PF), Role Physical (RP), and Body Pain (BP). Mental health-related scales include Vitality (VT), Social Functioning (SF), Role Emotional (RE), and Mental Health (MH)., Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in muscular strength (hand grip test),, Grip strength is a measure of muscular strength or the maximum force/tension generated by one's forearm muscles. It can be used as a screening tool for the measurement of upper body strength and overall strength. Within this clinical study an hand digital dynamometer will be used., Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks with respect to baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Overall patient's satisfaction with the product received, through a 5-points Likert scale, 5-points Likert scale: 1=very satisfied, 2=satisfied, 3=not satisfied nor unsatisfied, 4=not satisfied, 5= not satisfied at all, End of treatment (after 8 weeks of study treatment), in both the active and placebo groups|Adherence to treatment, The percentage of actual sachets taken by the patient in relation to the expected number of sachets, calculated as (number of real sachets taken / number of expected sachets) \* 100, After 4 weeks and after 8 weeks from baseline
Study product tolerability, Study product tolerability will be assessed by number of adverse events related to the product, Through study completion, an average of 12 weeks, in active and placebo groups|Change in Physical Examination through weight measurement, Weight (Kg), Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks from baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in Physical Examination through BMI evaluation, BMI (Kg/m\^2), Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks from baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in Physical Examinations through clinical evaluation by system, Number of normal/abnormal conditions per system, After 4, 8 and 12 weeks from baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in vital signs through body temperature measurement, Body temperature °C, Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks from baseline in Body temperature, in both the active and placebo groups|Change in vital signs through Respiratory Frequency measurement, Respiratory Frequency (rpm), Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks from baseline in Heart Rate, in both the active and placebo groups|Change in vital signs through Heart Rate measurement, Heart Rate (bpm), Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks from baseline in both the active and placebo groups|Change in vital signs through blood pressure measurement, Systolic and Diastolic blood pressure (mmHg), Change after 4, 8 and 12 weeks from baseline in both the active and placebo groups
SAMPLE SIZE DETERMINATION Considering the average of the BFI 5 in the placebo group and the average 3 in the treated group, with standard deviation of 3, power at 80% and alpha 0.05, we obtain 37 patients per group, thus a total of 74 patients. If a drop-out rate of 20% is fixed, 92 patients in total are obtained. So, a sample of 92 subjects would be sufficient.

DATA SAFETY MONITORING BOARD / DATA MONITORING COMMITTEE No Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) or Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will be convened for the evaluation of safety data during the study. However, the Network Italiano Cure di Supporto in Oncologia (NICSO) society will be in charge of the evaluation of safety information. In fact, a Scientific Committee, composed by NICSO members, has been established to support the Sponsor in the continuous evaluation of safety data emerging from the study.

MONITORING AND QUALITY ASSURANCE The study will be monitored by adequately qualified and trained clinical monitors. Before the start of the study, the CRO (Contract Research Organization) responsible for the study site has the task to assess the adequacy of the study site and the staff involved. After start, the study will be monitored to ensure the proper conduct of the clinical study.

DATA COLLECTION An Electronic Case Report Form (e-CRF) will be used for recording patient's study data.

The Investigator will maintain a list of all persons authorized to make entries and/or corrections on the CRFs. Each authorized person will be provided with a user-specific ID (Identification) protected by a renewable password. Data entries and corrections will be made only by the authorized persons. The e-CRF system will record date and time of any entry and /or correction and the user ID of the person making the entry/correction. The system will keep track of all old and new values (audit trail).