Capecitabine, Gemcitabine, and Bevacizumab in Combination for Patients With Sarcomatoid Renal Cell Carcinoma
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if the combination of 3 drugs (gemcitabine, capecitabine, and bevacizumab) can help to control metastatic or unresectable renal cell carcinoma. The safety of this drug combination will also be tested.
Renal Cell Carcinoma|Kidney Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Event or disease-free survival given as progression free survival (PFS) which was defined as the length of time after primary treatment that the participant survives without disease progression. Evaluation of response will follow the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) where progression is defined per RECIST criteria as an increase in disease of 20% or more in the sum of longest tumor diameters compared to baseline., 12 months or until progression of disease|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), Time to treatment failure, TTF, with failure defined as death or disease progression where progression is defined per RECIST criteria as an increase in disease of 20% or more in the sum of longest tumor diameters compared to baseline., 12 months or until progression of disease
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response defined as Complete Response + Partial Response, with response recorded from the start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). Complete Response: The disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response: \>30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, reference baseline sum longest diameter. Progressive Disease: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Stable Disease: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, reference smallest sum longest diameter since the treatment started., 12 months or until progression of disease
Gemcitabine and capecitabine are designed to disrupt the growth of cancer cells, which may cause cancer cells to start to die. Bevacizumab is a drug that binds to and inhibits Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF), a blood-vessel stimulating agent with unusually high levels in kidney cancer.

If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive gemcitabine, capecitabine, and bevacizumab on a 28 day cycle. Capecitabine will be taken by mouth (with food), twice daily, on Days 1-21. Gemcitabine will be given through a needle in your vein in your arm over 30 minutes on Days 1 and 15. Bevacizumab will be given through a needle in your vein in your arm on Days 1 and 15. It will be given over 120 minutes for Cycle 1 and over 60 minutes for all other cycles. Your doctor may decided to give you bevacizumab over 30 minutes if you tolerate the treatment well.

On the first day of each cycle, blood (about 2 teaspoons) and a urine will be collected before treatment for routine tests. You will also have blood drawn on Day 15 (about 2 teaspoons) for routine tests.

Every 8 weeks, you will have a CT scan of your chest, abdomen, and pelvis and a chest x-ray. You will be asked about any drugs that you are currently taking and you will have a complete physical exam. You will be asked about any side effects that you might have experienced since the last visit and your ability to perform daily activities will be evaluated. Repeat bone scans and MRI of the brain may be done if your doctor thinks it is necessary.

You will continue receiving treatment for a maximum of 12 months. However, if you are benefitting from treatment, you may be able to continue receiving it off study. You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse, if the side effects are intolerable, or if you develop another illness that prevents you from receiving the treatment.

This is an investigational study. Gemcitabine, capecitabine, and bevacizumab are all FDA approved and commercially available. Up to 40 participants may take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.