Afatinib Monotherapy in Patients With ERBB-deregulated Metastatic Urothelial Tract Carcinoma After Failure of Platinum Based Chemotherapy
The purpose of this trial is to assess the anti-tumour activity and safety of afatinib monotherapy in patients with urothelial tract carcinoma carrying ERBB2 or ERBB3 (Erythroblastic leukaemia viral oncogene homolog of the human epidermal growth factor family of receptors) mutations or ERBB2 amplifications (Cohort A), and EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) amplification positive tumours (Cohort B), progressing despite previous platinum based chemotherapy, and thereby to improve their prognosis.

The antitumour activity of afatinib monotherapy in these patients will be assessed by progression free survival rate at 6 months (PFS6). This will be the primary endpoint of the trial. A key secondary endpoint will also be defined, the objective response rate (ORR).
Urologic Neoplasms
DRUG: Afatinib
Number of Participants With Progression-free Survival at Six Months (PFS6) in Cohort A, Progression-free survival at 6 months for Cohort A was defined as the number of patients who were alive and without disease progression at 24-week tumour assessment. Tumour response was assessed based on local radiological image (Computerised tomography (CT) or Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) evaluation by the investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 1.1. Baseline imaging was to be performed within 28 days before afatinib treatment start, if the patient already had a tumour assessment within this timeframe, this test was not repeated. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, together with an absolute increase in the sum of LD of at least 5 millimeter OR The appearance of one or more new lesions., From start of treatment till assesment at week 24.
Number of Participants With Confirmed Objective Response (ORR) in Cohort A, Confirmed objective response by investigator review for Cohort A was defined as the number of participants with confirmed complete response (CR, disappearance of all target lesions) or confirmed partial response (PR, at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, reference is baseline sum LD). Tumour response was assessed based on local radiological image (Computerised tomography (CT) or Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) evaluation by the investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 1.1. Baseline imaging was to be performed within 28 days before afatinib treatment start, if the patient already had a tumour assessment within this timeframe, this test was not repeated., Scans every 8 (±1) weeks from start till end of treatment. Afterwards, if discontinuation was not for progression: every 8 (±1) weeks until month 6, every 12 (±2) weeks thereafter. Until documented disease progression, i.e., up to ~ 20 Months.|Progression-free Survival (PFS) in Cohort A, Progression-free survival was defined as the time (months) from the date of the first afatinib administration to the date of disease progression or death (if the patient died without progression). The date of progression for the primary analyses was determined based on investigator assessment. Tumour response was assessed based on local radiological image (Computerised tomography (CT) or Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) evaluation by the investigators according to RECIST version 1.1. Baseline imaging was to be performed within 28 days before afatinib treatment start, if the patient already had a tumour assessment within this timeframe, this test was not repeated. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, together with an absolute increase in the sum of LD of at least 5 millimeter OR The appearance of one or more new lesions., Scans every 8 (±1) weeks from start till end of treatment. Afterwards, if discontinuation was not for progression: every 8 (±1) weeks until month 6, every 12 (±2) weeks thereafter. Until documented disease progression, i.e., up to ~ 20 Months.|Overall Survival (OS) in Cohort A, Overall survival (OS) defined as the time from start of treatment of afatinib until death from any cause., From start of treatment of afatinib until death from any cause, i.e. up to approximately 20 Months.|Number of Participants With Disease Control (DCR) in Cohort A, Disease control was calculated as the number of participants with complete response (CR, disappearance of all target lesions), partial response (PR, at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, reference is baseline sum LD), or stable disease (SD, neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters (SoD), nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD (Progression) taking as reference the smallest SoD since the treatment started). Tumour response was assessed based on local radiological image (Computerised tomography (CT) or Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) evaluation by the investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 1.1. Baseline imaging was to be performed within 28 days before afatinib treatment start, if the patient already had a tumour assessment within this timeframe, this test was not repeated., Scans every 8 (±1) weeks from start till end of treatment. Afterwards, if discontinuation was not for progression: every 8 (±1) weeks until month 6, every 12 (±2) weeks thereafter. Until documented disease progression, i.e., up to ~ 20 Months.|Duration of Disease Control in Cohort A, For patients with disease control, duration of disease control was defined as the time from afatinib treatment start to disease progression (or death if the patient died before progression).

Disease control was defined as a having a complete response (CR, disappearance of all target lesions), partial response (PR, at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, reference is baseline sum LD), or stable disease (SD, neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters (SoD), nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as reference the smallest SoD since the treatment started). Tumour response was assessed based on local radiological image (CT or MRI) evaluation by the investigators according to RECIST version 1.1. Baseline imaging was to be performed within 28 days before afatinib treatment start, if the patient already had a tumour assessment within this timeframe, this test was not repeated., Scans every 8 (±1) weeks from start till end of treatment. Afterwards, if discontinuation was not for progression: every 8 (±1) weeks until month 6, every 12 (±2) weeks thereafter. Until documented disease progression, i.e., up to ~ 20 Months.|Number of Patients With Tumour Shrinkage in Cohort A, Number of patients with tumour shrinkage, tumour shrinkage from baseline was defined by the maximum percentage decrease from baseline in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions. Tumour response was assessed based on local radiological image (Computerised tomography (CT) or Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)) evaluation by the investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 1.1. Baseline imaging was to be performed within 28 days before afatinib treatment start, if the patient already had a tumour assessment within this timeframe, this test was not repeated., Scans every 8 (±1) weeks from start till end of treatment. Afterwards, if discontinuation was not for progression: every 8 (±1) weeks until month 6, every 12 (±2) weeks thereafter. Until documented disease progression, i.e., up to ~ 20 Months.
The purpose of this trial is to assess the anti-tumour activity and safety of afatinib monotherapy in patients with urothelial tract carcinoma carrying ERBB2 or ERBB3 (Erythroblastic leukaemia viral oncogene homolog of the human epidermal growth factor family of receptors) mutations or ERBB2 amplifications (Cohort A), and EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) amplification positive tumours (Cohort B), progressing despite previous platinum based chemotherapy, and thereby to improve their prognosis.

The antitumour activity of afatinib monotherapy in these patients will be assessed by progression free survival rate at 6 months (PFS6). This will be the primary endpoint of the trial. A key secondary endpoint will also be defined, the objective response rate (ORR).