Clinical Study of Lewis Antigen Assay Combined With CA19-9 Assay to Assess Prognosis in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer
CA19-9 is an acidic glycoside containing sialic acid, called ganglioside. Lewis blood group antigen is the precursor for the synthesis of CA19-9, which is formed by the combined action of sialic acid transferase and fucosyltransferase (FUT3). The ability to produce soluble blood group substances is determined by the alpha (1,2) fucosyltransferase gene (FUT2), which can be divided into secretory Se, weakly secretory Sew, and non secretory SE. The Lewis antigen positive (Lewis+) population has normal CA19-9 secretion function, while the Lewis antigen negative (Lewis -) population (about 7%) usually shows no or low secretion of CA19-9. Therefore, when CA19-9 is used as a biomarker, the combined detection of Lewis antigen status is a marker to judge the prognosis of pancreatic cancer, which can divide pancreatic cancer patients into high/medium/low malignant phenotypes.
PDAC
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Lewis genotype detection reagent
To explore the prognosis of pancreatic cancer with the combination of the Lewis antigen test and the CA19-9 test, The phenotypes of pancreatic cancer patients were classified by Lewis antigen test combined with CA19-9 test.Monitoring patients' disease expression and assisting clinical selection of targeted treatment plan.The consistency between Lewis classification and prognosis was assessed by looking at the survival of pancreatic cancer subjects following clinical treatment regimens., Up to 12 months after the treatment
1. This study adopts a prospective, multicenter design, and classifies pancreatic cancer patients and predicts their prognosis through Lewis antigen detection and CA19-9 detection.
2. Observe the survival time of pancreatic cancer subjects to observe the consistency between Lewis typing and prognosis, and evaluate the sensitivity of Lewis antigen detection.
3. Evaluate the specificity of Lewis antigen detection by observing the distribution of Lewis subtypes in non pancreatic cancer subjects.
4. Explore the prognostic distribution of age, different Lewis subtypes, and overall survival cycle for Lewis antigen detection.