Durvalumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well durvalumab works in treating patients with prostate cancer that is resistant to hormones and has spread to other places in the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Castration Levels of Testosterone|Hormone-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Microsatellite Instability
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Response rate to durvalumab defined according to modified RECIST 1.1 criteria or a reduction in PSA level >= 50%, Will be calculated as the percentage with 95% confidence interval (CI) of the total number of subjects that achieved a response., Up to 3 years
Incidence of adverse events according to NCI-CTCAE version 4.0, Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Will be presented with Kaplan-Meier curves, and the median survival with 95% CI will be calculated. Rates will be reported as percentages with 95% CI., From the start of treatment until death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|PSA PFS, Will be presented with Kaplan-Meier curves, and the median survival with 95% CI will be calculated. Rates will be reported as percentages with 95% CI., From the start of treatment until PSA progression, assessed up to 3 years|PSA response rate as defined per the PCWG3 criteria, Will be reported as percentages with 95% CI., Up to 3 years|Radiographic PFS, Will be presented with Kaplan-Meier curves, and the median survival with 95% CI will be calculated. Rates will be reported as percentages with 95% CI., From the start of treatment until disease progression, clinical progression, or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years|Radiographic response rate defined as CR or PR using RECIST 1.1, Will be reported as percentages with 95% CI., Up to 3 years
Mismatch repair gene mutational status and mutational load determined by UW-OncoPlex, Will be conducted on matched metastatic biopsies and ctDNA and/or CTCs. Baseline exploratory biomarker levels/values, as well as changes in these levels/values pre-/post-treatment will be correlated with the primary endpoint and secondary endpoints using chi-square tests and logistic regression, or (for PFS and OS) using proportional hazards models, Kaplan-Meier methods and log-rank tests., Up to 3 years|PD-L1 expression assessed by IHC and transcript profiling (e.g. qRT-PCR), Will be conducted on matched metastatic biopsies and ctDNA and/or CTCs. Baseline exploratory biomarker levels/values, as well as changes in these levels/values pre-/post-treatment will be correlated with the primary endpoint and secondary endpoints using chi-square tests and logistic regression, or (for PFS and OS) using proportional hazards models, Kaplan-Meier methods and log-rank tests., Up to 3 years|Relative location of T-cells using CD3/CD8 IHC, Will be conducted on matched metastatic biopsies and ctDNA and/or CTCs. Baseline exploratory biomarker levels/values, as well as changes in these levels/values pre-/post-treatment will be correlated with the primary endpoint and secondary endpoints using chi-square tests and logistic regression, or (for PFS and OS) using proportional hazards models, Kaplan-Meier methods and log-rank tests., Up to 3 years|Tumor specific T-cell responses using next generation sequencing assays, Will be conducted on matched metastatic biopsies and ctDNA and/or CTCs. Baseline exploratory biomarker levels/values, as well as changes in these levels/values pre-/post-treatment will be correlated with the primary endpoint and secondary endpoints using chi-square tests and logistic regression, or (for PFS and OS) using proportional hazards models, Kaplan-Meier methods and log-rank tests., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate to durvalumab in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients with microsatellite instability (MSI), where response rate is defined either according to modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria or a reduction in prostate specific antigen (PSA) level of \>= 50%.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the percent of mCRPC patients with MSI achieving a radiographic response per modified RECIST 1.1 criteria following treatment with durvalumab.

II. Determine the percent of mCRPC patients with MSI achieving a reduction in PSA level of \>= 50% following treatment with durvalumab.

III. Determine the radiographic progression free survival (PFS) in hypermutated mCRPC patients with MSI treated with durvalumab using modified RECIST 1.1 criteria for soft tissue metastases and Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria for bone metastases.

IV. Determine the PSA PFS rate according to PCWG3 criteria in hypermutated mCRPC patients with MSI treated with durvalumab.

V. Determine the time to response in hypermutated mCRPC patients with MSI treated with durvalumab using modified RECIST 1.1 criteria.

VI. Determine the overall survival in hypermutated mCRPC patients with MSI treated with durvalumab.

VII. Determine the change in PSA doubling time 12-weeks after the initiation of durvalumab.

VIII. Track pain as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory during the course of treatment with durvalumab.

IX. Assess the incidence and severity of adverse events according to the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine mismatch repair gene mutational status and mutational load (by UWOncoPlex).

II. Determine mismatch repair gene mutational status, mutational load and microsatellite stability from circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and/or cell-free tumor DNA (ctDNA).

III. PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and transcript profiling (e.g. quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction \[qRT-PCR\]).

IV. Determine the relative location of T-cells within the tumor microenvironment (i.e. stroma vs. tumor edge) using CD3/CD8 IHC.

V. Evaluate for tumor specific T-cell responses in blood and within the tumor microenvironment using next generation sequencing assays.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 4 weeks for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, at 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 10 months, and then every 6 months.