SLM + Axitinib for Clear Cell RCC
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of L-selenomethionine when given together with axitinib in treating patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma that has spread from the primary site (place where it started) to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced metastatic). L-selenomethionine may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. Axitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving L-selenomethionine together with axitinib may be a better treatment for advanced metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
Advanced Metastatic Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (CCRCC)
DRUG: Selenomethionine (SLM)|DRUG: Axitinib|DRUG: Selenomethionine (SLM)|DRUG: Axitinib|DRUG: Selenomethionine (SLM)
Incidence of adverse events (AE) per CTCAE 4.03, The AEs will be summarized and classified by body system and by treatment group. The type, incidence, severity, and causality of each AE, the duration of the event, and any required treatment interventions will be tabulated., After 2 cycles (28 days)|Pilot Phase - Determine dose-concentration relationship and estimate the effective dose of SLM (informed by preclinical data) using the continual reassessment method (CRM)., Dose escalation for this pilot study will be conducted using a CRM in which the probability of exceeding a blood selenium concentration of 45 µM on Day 14 is being modeled. Prior probabilities of exceeding a blood selenium concentration of 45 µM on Day 14 were estimated based on preclinical and preliminary data from the initial trial. A one parameter logistic model with intercept set at 3 and an initial value of 1 for the slope will be used to estimate the dose-concentration relationship through sequential recursive Bayesian assessment. The target probability of exceeding 45 µM is ≤20%., 14 days
Tumor Response rate as assessed by RECIST v.1.1, After 2 cycles (28 days)|Progression free survival (PFS), 14 months|Overall survival (OS), 3 years
This is a Phase I trial for safety and preliminary efficacy of the combination of axitinib and SLM for adult patients with advanced metastatic CCRCC. This will be a two part study consisting of a dose escalation and expansion study.

Dose-Escalation Part 1 (6-12 patients): SLM will be given twice daily for 14 days followed by once daily dosing in combination with axitinib 5 mg twice daily with titration according to package insert in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. Treatment will continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The MTD was determined to be 4000 mcg SLM.

Expansion Part 2: In this phase (approximately 19 patients), will be treated at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of SLM determined in the Escalation Part 1. It will be given orally twice daily for 14 days, followed by once daily dosing in combination with axitinib 5 mg twice daily with titration according to package insert in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma. Treatment will continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

A pilot group of 10 subjects will have SLM dose calculated based on patients' BSA to characterize the dose-concentration relationship and estimate the effective administered dose of selenium necessary to achieve the target blood concentration range informed by preclinical data.