GM1 in the Treatment of Neurotoxicity Induced by Albumin-bound Paclitaxel
Taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy (TIPN) caused by albumin-bound paclitaxel is a dose-limiting toxicity. The main symptoms of discomfort are numbness, tingling, and burning sensations in the glove-sock-like distribution of the limbs. At present, there are few effective methods for clinical treatment of TIPN, and there is no widely agreed consensus on effective treatment in the world. Therefore, it is of great clinical significance and practical value to carry out clinical research to explore drugs to relieve TIPN.
Early Breast Cancer
DRUG: monosialic gangliosides|OTHER: Placebo
FACT-Ntx score, The FACT-Ntx subscale includes 11 items, each of which is divided into 5 scoring levels: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and a total score of 44. Higher scores indicate lower side effects, 2 weeks after chemotherapy
CTCAE Version 4.0 score, Peripheral sensory neuropathy, peripheral motor neuropathy, paresthesia, myalgia, arthralgia, and neuralgia were evaluated by the CTCAE 4.0 rating scale. Each item was divided into 5 levels: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, Higher indicates higher neurotoxicity, During chemotherapy, and 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after chemotherapy|FACT-Taxane score, The FACT-Taxane scale contains 16 items, each item is divided into 5 grades: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, with a total score of 64. The higher the score, the lower the side effects., During chemotherapy, and 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after chemotherapy|FACT-G score, The FACT-G Scale contains 27 items, each item is divided into 5 grades: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, with a total score of 108, During chemotherapy, and 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after chemotherapy|FACT-Ntx score, The FACT-Ntx subscale includes 11 items, each of which is divided into 5 scoring levels: 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and a total score of 44. Higher scores indicate lower side effects, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after chemotherapy
Taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy (TIPN) caused by albumin-bound paclitaxel is a dose-limiting toxicity. The main symptoms of discomfort are numbness, tingling, and burning sensations in the glove-sock-like distribution of the limbs. At present, there are few effective methods for clinical treatment of TIPN, and there is no widely agreed consensus on effective treatment in the world. Therefore, it is of great clinical significance and practical value to carry out clinical research to explore drugs to relieve TIPN.