Mesothelioma Stratified Therapy (MiST) : A Multi-drug Phase II Trial in Malignant Mesothelioma
MiST is a British Lung Foundation funded, University of Leicester Study, a multi-arm stratified therapy based clinical trial for patients with relapsed mesothelioma.

The goal of MiST is to enable acceleration of novel, effective personalised therapy as a basis for improving survival outcomes for patients with mesothelioma.
Mesothelioma, Malignant
DRUG: Rucaparib|DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: pembrolizumab & bemcentinib|DRUG: Atezolizumab & Bevacizumab|DRUG: Dostarlimab and Niraparib
Disease control rate (DCR) at 12 weeks assessed by modified RECIST 1.1, in patients with relapsed mesothelioma., This will be assessed using CT scan evidence according to modified RECIST 1.1 criteria reporting. Scans will be undertaken every 6 weeks. Analysis will be timed from study entry using the baseline CT scan results until completion of treatment cycles, confirmed disease progression or death - whichever comes first., 12 weeks
Disease control rate (DCR) at 24 weeks assessed by modified RECIST 1.1, in patients with relapsed mesothelioma., This will be assessed using CT scan evidence according to modified RECIST 1.1 criteria reporting. Scans will be undertaken every 6 weeks. Analysis will be timed from study entry using the baseline CT scan results until completion of treatment cycles, confirmed disease progression or death - whichever comes first., 24 weeks|Objective response rate (ORR) assessed for 12 months, This will be assessed using CT scan evidence according to modified RECIST 1.1 criteria, Up to 12 months (up to 6 months during treatment and 6 months of follow-up)|Safety assessed according to CTCAE criteria., Adverse events will be recorded in relation to each cycle of treatment and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). The incidence of each adverse event (all grades and grade 3/4) will be reported as a per-patient-cycle rate and as a per-patient rate. Investigators expect patients to participate in the study for a maximum of 6 months of Treatment and 6 months of follow-up, however cannot guarantee that some patients may participate over 12 months., 12 months (up to 6 months during treatment and 6 months of follow-up)|Toxicity assessed according to CTCAE criteria., Adverse events will be recorded in relation to each cycle of treatment and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). The incidence of each adverse event (all grades and grade 3/4) will be reported as a per-patient-cycle rate and as a per-patient rate. Investigators expect patients to participate in the study for a maximum of 6 months of Treatment and 6 months of follow-up, however cannot guarantee that some patients may participate over 12 months., 12 months (up to 6 months during treatment and 6 months of follow-up)
Stage 1 - molecular pre-screening:

The MiST Master protocol describes the identification of patients, biomarker testing and analysis. Patients with relapsed mesothelioma will be offered to consent for molecular panel testing of their diagnostic tumour block for predictive biomarkers. The results of this assessment will be used to classify patients into one of several possible molecularly defined treatment arms. Patients will therefore be offered a specific study treatment determined by their molecular profile. Patients, who exhibit positive testing in more than one biomarker, will potentially be eligible to subsequently be treated on a different treatment protocol upon disease progression or treatment failure.

Stage 2 - Treatment:

The MiST treatment protocol will be specific to the treatment allocated to the patient - based on the results of their biomarker testing in stage 1.

Specific agent(s) will be detailed separately in each of the separate treatment protocols.

Stage 3 - Molecular Profiling :

In order to understand the genomic basis of drug response in the MiST trial, archival tumour tissue from all patients enrolled will be interrogated using molecular inversion probe- based microarray analysis of the somatic copy number aberrations. Optional re-biopsy of patients who progress on treatment, followed confirmed radiological response, will be offered, to investigate genomic interrogation of tumours at the time of acquired resistance. For arms 3, 4 and 5 immune checkpoint, transcriptomic and gut microbiome correlative studies are planned.