SABR for Renal Tumors
Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) is the most common type of kidney cancer. The usual treatment for this type of cancer is surgery. Considering the most common patients are an average age of 65 and some are not suitable candiates for surgery, there is great interest in non-surgical alternatives for kidney cancer treatments. This study will investigate the use of Stereotactic Ablative Radiosurgery (SABR) for renal tumors. SABR is a non-invasive alternative, which involves delivery of high doses of radiation to the target, while minimizing the risk of injury to the surrounding organs. Patients will be seen before and end of treatmetn and will be followed at 4 month intervals for up to 2 years. During the follow ups, patients will be asked to complete a quality of life questionnaire and will have standard of care imaging.
Renal Tumor
RADIATION: Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy
To evaluate the radiation induced renal impairments in patients receiving SABR., The prevalence of nephron toxicity in patients treated with SABR, measured by the change in Glomerular Filtration Rate (GFR) every 4 months over 2 years., 2 years
Chronic Kidney Disease Stage Progression, Chronic kidney disease stage progression after SABR, assessed by the Kidney Disease Outcomes Quality Initiative (KDOQI) guidelines, 2 years|2-year Local recurrence rate, 2 year local recurrence rate of kidney tumors treated with SABR, measured by assessing the change of irradiated kidney function on functional imaging., 2 years|Patient Reported Outcomes, The change in quality of life of patients treated with SABR, assessed through the use of NCCN FKSI-19 questionnaire., 2 years|Incidence of acute and late toxicities, The incidence of acute (≤3 months) and late complication of interest (GI or GU complications, high blood pressure and adrenal insufficiency) as assessed by CTCAE version 5.0., 2 years
Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) is the most common type of kidney cancer. The usual treatment for this type of cancer is surgery. Considering the most common patients are an average age of 65 and some are not suitable candiates for surgery, there is great interest in non-surgical alternatives for kidney cancer treatments. This study will investigate the use of Stereotactic Ablative Radiosurgery (SABR) for renal tumors. SABR is a non-invasive alternative, which involves delivery of high doses of radiation to the target, while minimizing the risk of injury to the surrounding organs. Patients will be seen before and end of treatmetn and will be followed at 4 month intervals for up to 2 years. During the follow ups, patients will be asked to complete a quality of life questionnaire and will have standard of care imaging.