Allogeneic HCT Using Nonmyeloablative Host Conditioning With TLI & ATG vs SOC in AML
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a cancer of the bone marrow that mostly affects older adults. Even with the best chemotherapy, two-year disease-free survival is achieved in a minority of patients. Bone marrow transplantation from a sibling donor may improve cure rates; however, patients over 50 years of age have a high risk of complications and therefore generally are excluded from this treatment option. Recently our group developed a transplantation strategy for older cancer patients that protects against transplant-associated complications, yet does not interfere with the ability of the transplanted donor cells to destroy cancer cells. With this new method, we can now safely evaluate transplantation as a curative therapy for AML patients over the age of 50. We have assembled clinical and scientific researchers throughout the state of California to study and compare bone marrow transplantation using our new approach with the best standard of care chemotherapy in AML patients over the age of 50. The results of this study have the potential to establish a new treatment standard that will improve survival of older AML patients.
Leukemia, Myeloid|Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic HSCT|DRUG: Anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG)|DRUG: Cyclosporine (CSP)|DRUG: Mycophenolate mofetil (MMF)|RADIATION: Total lymphoid irradiation (TLI)|DRUG: Methylprednisolone sodium succinate|DRUG: Best standard care
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival defined as the time interval between the date of attaining a first complete remission (CR) and the date of death from any cause. The outcome is reported as the number of participants alive (without dispersion)., 2 years
Disease-free Survival (DFS), Disease-free survival is defined as the time interval between the date of attaining a first complete remission (CR) and the date of relapse. Disease free survival (DFS) will compared to conventional therapy vs Non-myeloablative Host Conditioning (NMA HCT). The outcome is reported as the number of participants which never experienced disease relapse (without dispersion)., 2 years|Non-relapse Mortality, Non-relapse mortality is defined as death that occurs after therapy, from any cause except a cause associated with relapse. This will be reported as the number of participants experiencing non-relapse mortality (a number without dispersion)., 2 years|Relapse Rate, Relapse will be determined as ≥ 5% blast cells in the bone marrow, not secondary to regeneration after myelosuppressive therapy; OR emergence of extramedullary leukemia; OR the re-emergence of blasts in the peripheral blood. The outcome will be reported as the number and percentage of participants that meet these criteria (a number without dispersion)., 2 years|Transplant-related Mortality, Transplant-related mortality will be assessed as any death occurring within 6 months post-transplant, from any cause except relapse. It will be measured at 100 day and 6 months after transplant. The outcome is expressed as at the number of participants experiencing transplant-related mortality (a number without dispersion)., 100 days and 6 months|Complete Donor Hematopoietic Cell Chimerism, Complete donor hematopoietic cell chimerism was evaluated in transplant recipients. Complete donor chimerism will be assessed as the presence of \> 95% donor T-cells (CD3+) in the blood. The outcome is reported as the percentage of participants that achieve complete donor chimerism, a number without dispersion., 2 years|Early Graft Loss, Early graft loss means a failure to achieve donor T-cell chimerism of \> 5% at any time after transplant. The outcome is reported as the percentage of participants that experience early graft loss, a number without dispersion., 2 years|Patients Completing the Intended Therapy in Both Arms, The assessment for completion of the intended therapy (in both arms) will be reported as the percentage of participants, a number without dispersion, 2 years
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a cancer of the bone marrow that mostly affects older adults. Even with the best chemotherapy, two-year disease-free survival is achieved in a minority of patients. Bone marrow transplantation from a sibling donor may improve cure rates; however, patients over 50 years of age have a high risk of complications and therefore generally are excluded from this treatment option. Recently our group developed a transplantation strategy for older cancer patients that protects against transplant-associated complications, yet does not interfere with the ability of the transplanted donor cells to destroy cancer cells. With this new method, we can now safely evaluate transplantation as a curative therapy for AML patients over the age of 50. We have assembled clinical and scientific researchers throughout the state of California to study and compare bone marrow transplantation using our new approach with the best standard of care chemotherapy in AML patients over the age of 50. The results of this study have the potential to establish a new treatment standard that will improve survival of older AML patients.