A Rollover Protocol to Allow Continued Access to Tivozanib (AV 951) for Subjects Enrolled in Other Tivozanib Protocols
Open-label, multi-center, multi-national rollover study to allow continued access to tivozanib for subjects who have participated in other tivozanib (monotherapy or combination) protocols. Eligible subjects will continue to receive tivozanib at the same dose and schedule as per the original (parent) protocol. The length of time that a subject must be on the parent protocol before rolling over to this protocol will be dictated by the (original) parent protocol. Subjects will be seen by the investigator every 4 weeks (± 5 days). Adverse events and blood pressure will be recorded. At the beginning of Cycle 1 and at the beginning of every odd-numbered cycle (Cycle 3, Cycle 5, etc), clinical laboratory values will be recorded. CT scans to assess disease will be performed at the end of even-numbered cycles (Cycle 2, Cycle 4, etc).
Solid Tumors
DRUG: Tivozanib + paclitaxel|DRUG: Tivozanib + temsirolimus|DRUG: Tivozanib|DRUG: Tivozanib (AV-951)|DRUG: Tivozanib + capecitabine|DRUG: Tivo
Number of Subjects With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious AEs, Safety and tolerability will be assessed in accordance to the protocol of the parent study in which the subjects had participated, before enrolling in the AV-951-09-901 rollover study., 24 Months
This is an open-label multi-center, multi-national rollover protocol to allow continued access to tivozanib for subjects who have participated in other tivozanib (monotherapy or combination) protocols, who are tolerating study drug, and displaying clinical benefit.

Enrollment to this protocol will remain open to subjects who participate in current and future protocols with tivozanib. The end of the study is the last treatment visit of the last subject at the last site. Enrollment in this protocol will continue until tivozanib becomes commercially available in the country where the subject is being treated. If a subject is experiencing clinical benefit from tivozanib when the study is discontinued, the sponsor will make every effort to assist the subject in obtaining commercially available tivozanib.

This rollover protocol will be open to eligible subjects on current and future protocols with tivozanib. The number of subjects who will enroll is dependent upon the number of subjects enrolled in tivozanib protocols that tolerate the drug, display clinical benefits, and are willing to participate.