Enasidenib and Azacitidine in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia and IDH2 Gene Mutation
This phase II trial studies how well enasidenib and azacitidine work in treating patients with IDH2 gene mutation and acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (recurrent) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Enasidenib and azacitidine may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Acute Bilineal Leukemia|Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|IDH2 Gene Mutation|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Enasidenib Mesylate
Overall response rate (ORR), The study will estimate the ORR for the combination treatment, along with the Bayesian 95% credible interval. ORR will be defined as the proportion of patients who had CR (complete remission), CRh (complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery), CRi (complete remission with incomplete count recovery), PR (partial response), and/or marrow clearance of blasts (MLFS)., Up to 5 years
Event-free survival, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the probabilities of event-free survival., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the probabilities of overall survival., Up to 5 years|Disease-free survival (DFS), Log-rank tests will be used to compare among subgroups of patients in terms of DFS or OS., Up to 5 years|Duration of response, Log-rank tests will be used., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 5 years
Minimal residual disease (MRD), MRD negative status and exploratory biomarkers will be summarized graphically and with descriptive statistics., Up to 5 years|Association of biomarkers to overall response, Association between molecular and cellular markers and overall response and/or resistance assessed through logistic regression analyses., Up to 5 years|Change in markers over time, Paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to assess the marker change over time., Baseline up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the clinical activity of enasidenib mesylate (AG221, IDHIFA) in combination with azacitidine (AZA) for patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia is measured by overall response rate (ORR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine duration of response, event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS).

II. To determine the safety of enasidenib in combination with azacitidine in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate occurrence of minimal residual disease (MRD) negative status by IDH2 mutation analysis and flow cytometry.

II. To investigate possible relationships between baseline protein and gene expression signatures and mutation profile and clinical response to the combination.

III. To evaluate the incidence and characteristics of IDH-inhibitor related differentiation syndrome (IDH-DS) with combination therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1-7 and enasidenib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) beginning on day 1. Cycles repeat every 4-6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3-6 months for up to 5 years.