Caloric Restriction in Treating Patients With Stage 0-I Breast Cancer Undergoing Surgery and Radiation Therapy
This pilot clinical trial studies caloric restriction in patients with stage 0-I breast cancer during surgery and radiation therapy. Reducing caloric intake may prevent disease progression in patients with breast cancer. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. Giving dietary intervention and radiation therapy together may kill more tumor cells.
Ductal Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Invasive Ductal Breast Carcinoma|Invasive Lobular Breast Carcinoma|Lobular Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral dietary intervention|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic conventional surgery|RADIATION: Radiation therapy|OTHER: Counseling intervention|PROCEDURE: Quality-of-life assessment
Number of Participants Who Are Adherent to the Diet Restriction, Computed along with a 95% exact confidence interval. Exact binomial test (with a one-sided alpha of 0.05) will be used to test whether adherence is greater than 60%., Up to week 12
Change in Body Fat Measurement, Analyzed via a paired t-test. Change in body fat measurement as determined by the Durnin-Womersley 4-fold technique, Baseline to 4 weeks after completion of study|Change in Body Mass Index (BMI), Assessed via mixed-effects regression. Weight changes over time assessed by modeling BMI as a function of time, Baseline to 4 weeks after completion of study|Change in Heart Rate Over Time, Assessed via mixed-effects regression., Baseline to 4 weeks after completion of study|Patterns of Change Over Time in Serum Markers, Assessed via mixed-effects regression., Baseline to 4 weeks after completion of study|Patterns of Change Over Time in Psycho-social Outcomes Measured Using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B), Assessed via mixed-effects regression. The FACT-B is a questionnaire using a 5-point Likert scale (0-Not at all to 4-Very much), Baseline to 4 weeks after completion of study|Local Recurrence, Analyzed via survival methods, specifically the Kaplan-Meier method and the logrank test., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study|Distant Metastases, Analyzed via survival methods, specifically the Kaplan-Meier method and the logrank test., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study|Progression Free Survival, Analyzed via survival methods, specifically the Kaplan-Meier method and the logrank test., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study|Overall Survival, Analyzed via survival methods, specifically the Kaplan-Meier method and the logrank test., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

1. Investigate the feasibility of a clinical trial administering ionizing radiation with concurrent caloric restriction (CR) for the treatment of breast cancer.

   SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:
2. Investigate measurable changes of patient characteristics and tissue and serum from CR conditions to determine a metric for evaluating this treatment in future studies.

OUTLINE:

Beginning 2-4 weeks after completion of lumpectomy, patients receive food diaries to complete for 7-10 days. Dietary counselors then give patients guidelines for dietary modifications to reduce caloric intake by 25% of their normal diet. Patients follow caloric restricted diet for 10 weeks (2 weeks prior to radiation therapy, during 6 weeks of radiation therapy, and at least 2 weeks after radiation therapy). Patients undergo radiation therapy once daily (QD) 5 days a week for 6 weeks.