A Randomized, Blinded, Placebo-controlled, Phase II Trial of LEE011 in Patients With Relapsed, Refractory, Incurable Teratoma With Recent Progression
This was a multi-center, randomized, double blind (investigator and subject), placebo controlled Phase II study to determine the efficacy and safety of treatment with ribociclib versus placebo in subjects with progressive relapsed, refractory incurable teratoma. Eligible subjects were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to ribociclib or placebo.

After discontinuation of study treatment, patients were followed up for safety, disease progression and overall survival.
Teratoma
DRUG: LEE011|DRUG: LEE011 Placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any causeas per RECIST v1.1 (by local investigator assessment). Only includes data prior to cross over. Disease progression follow-up: Subjects who discontinued study drug for any reasons other than disease progression were followed for efficacy every 8 weeks during the first 12 months. After 12 months, they were followed for every 12 weeks until disease progression, death, discontinuation from the study for any other reason (i.e. loss to follow-up or withdrawal of consent), the initiation of a new antineoplastic treatment, or until all subjects had been followed for at least 18 months after their first dose of study drug, or early study termination, whichever occurred first., At 24 months
Best Overall Response (BOR), as per RECIST v1.1. Only includes data prior to cross over. Placebo arm : the subject who experienced SD as best overall response entered the secondary phase and was treated with LEE011 after he experienced progressive disease, following his best Stable Disease response. In this outcome measure 2, only the best overall response is indicated., At 24 months|Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate (ORR) = complete response (CR) or partial response (PR).

ORR was zero, as there were no CRs or PRs in either of the groups, At 27 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), as per RECIST v1.1. Only includes data prior to cross over. Placebo arm : the disease control rate is based on the best overall response described in the outcome measure 2., At 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), Only includes data prior to cross over. OS defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. If a patient was not known to have died by the date of analysis cut off, OS was censored at the date of last known date patient alive, At 27 months|Overall Survival Rate, as per RECIST v1.1. Only includes data prior to cross over. Kaplan-Meier estimates (%) OS rate \[95% CI\] at different timepoints. The overall survival rate at 27 month is 72.9% by Kaplan-Meyer (K-M) estimator; the reason that it is not 75% (1-25%) (Overall survival) is because of censoring. When the other 6 patients were censored would impact the survival rate with K-M method as the number of patients at risk after each censor was changed.

NA for the 95% CI is indicated when no patient died at the time of assessment, as the CI could not be calculated as per definition. Results are presented as a % calculated on the total number of participants., 1, 2, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24 and 27 months
Safety follow-up: After discontinuation of study treatment, all subjects were followed for safety for 30 days except in the case of death, loss to follow up, withdrawal of consent, or discontinuation of study treatment to enroll in the ribociclib rollover clinical trial (CLEE011X2X01B).

Disease progression follow-up: Subjects who discontinued study drug for any reasons other than disease progression were followed for efficacy every 8 weeks during the first 12 months. After 12 months, they were followed for every 12 weeks until disease progression, death, discontinuation from the study for any other reason (i.e. loss to follow-up or withdrawal of consent), the initiation of a new antineoplastic treatment, or until all subjects had been followed for at least 18 months after their first dose of study drug, or early study termination, whichever occurred first.

Survival follow-up: All subjects were followed for survival via a phone call (or during a clinic visit) every 12 weeks and up to one additional time per quarter if a survival update was required to meet safety or regulatory needs. The safety follow-up was carried out until any of the following occurred (whichever occurred first): death, withdrawal of consent, loss to follow-up, at least 18 months had elapsed from when the last subject had started treatment, or when 80% of subjects had died or were lost to follow-up, or early study termination.