Sunitinib in Treating Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer That Progressed After First-Line Therapy With Gemcitabine
This phase II trial is studying how well sunitinib works in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer that progressed after first-line therapy with gemcitabine. Sunitinib may stop the growth of pancreatic cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor and by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Acinar Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Duct Cell Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: sunitinib malate
Response (CR/PR/stable disease) as measured by RECIST criteria, At 6 weeks post-initiation of protocol treatment
Response duration, Duration of response will be determined for the subset of patients who achieve a confirmed response of CR or PR. Duration of objective response will be defined as the time from the first tumor assessment indicating response (later confirmed) to the time of disease progression or death from any cause., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Median and 1-year survival will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 2 years|Number and percentage of patients reporting common and serious adverse events (AEs), the AEs related to sunitinib, reason for study discontinuation, clinically significant laboratory abnormalities, and AEs with worst NCI CTCAE grade, Summarized descriptively for all patients receiving at least one dose of sunitinib., Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Median and 1-year survival will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate to sunitinib malate in patients with previously treated metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of response, progression-free survival and overall survival of sunitinib malate in patients with previously treated metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

II. To determine the safety of sunitinib malate in patients with previously treated metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, nonrandomized study.

Patients receive oral sunitinib malate daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study, patients are followed every 3 months until 2 years from study entry or until disease progression.