A Single Arm Study Evaluating the Efficacy and Safety of Pralatrexate in Subjects With Relapsed or Refractory PTCL
This is a single arm, open-label, multi-center study designed to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of pralatrexate when administered concurrently with vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation to patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma(PTCL).
Refractory Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma|Relapsed T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: pralatrexate|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin B12 and folic acid
Objective Response Rate(ORR) by International Working Group Criteria, ORR defined as the percentage of subjects with CR, CRu or PR as Best Overall Response.Evaluation of response must be performed within 7 days prior to the projected first dose of cycle 2-4 and then within 7 days prior to the projected first dose of every even-numbered subsequent cycle (i.e. prior to cycles 6, 8, etc). Unscheduled radiological response assessments will be performed earlier if clinical progression is suspected.The primary analysis will be conducted once all subjects have completed cycle 5 treatment or discontinued before. Study treatment may continue per investigator judgment for a maximum of 24 months.

Response will be assessed on the basis of clinical, radiological, and pathological criteria. Response will be assessed by independent central review and by the treating investigator. Central review assessors will be blinded to the response assessments by the treating investigator. The primary analysis will be based on response assessed by central review., 2 years
Time to Response (TTR), Time to response was measured from first day of treatment to the first date of documented response., 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was measured from treatment day 1 until event or censoring. An event was defined as the earliest of the following: death from any cause or disease progression. Subjects undergoing transplant or any other subsequent therapy prior to documentation of PD was censored at that time. Progression of disease deems as 1. 50% increase from nadir in the SPD of any previously identified abnormal node for PRs or nonresponders, 2.Appearance of any new lesion during or at the end of therapy as per IWC criteria., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS was measured from treatment day 1 until death or censoring., 4 years|Duration of Responses, Duration of response was measured from first day of documented response to disease progression or death, whatever comes first., 4 years|Percentage of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, treatment emergent AE was scheduled to be collected during all subject visits, the data evaluated as clinical significant will be summarized and presented., 4 years|Area Under the Curve [AUC] for R-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day1，Cycle 1 week 6(Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection)|Area Under the Curve [AUC] for S-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Steady State Volume of Distribution [Vdss] for R-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week6(Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection)|Steady State Volume of Distribution [Vdss] for S-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Steady State Clearance [CLss] for R-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Steady State Clearance [CLss] for S-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration [Cmax] for R-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration [Cmax] for S-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Time of Cmax Observation [Tmax] for R-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Time of Cmax Observation [Tmax] for S-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Terminal Phase Half-life [t1/2Z] for R-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）|Terminal Phase Half-life [t1/2Z] for S-pralatrexate, The PK endpoints was analysed using the PK population. The overall PK population is defined as all subjects who receive at least one dose of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP) and have at least one primary PK parameter. Subjects with non-zero baseline concentrations of \>5% of Cmax for either analyte (R-pralatrexate or S-pralatrexate) will be removed from the PK population., Cycle 1 day 1, Cycle 1 week 6（Pre-injection, end-injection, 30 and 60 minutes, and 3, 5, 8, 12, 18, 24, 48, and 72 hours post-end injection）
The primary objective of this study is to confirm the objective response rate (ORR) among Chinese subjects with relapsed or refractory PTCL treated with pralatrexate together with concurrent vitamin B12 and folic acid supplementation

Primary endpoint is objective Response Rate by International Working Group Criteria

This study includes 3 phases: Screening, Treatment (pralatrexate) and Follow-up phases.

Screening Phase:

The screening phase will be up to 28 days duration (depending on availability of lab results).

Treatment (pralatrexate) Phase:

The start of study treatment (pralatrexate) is defined as the initiation of pralatrexate. Patients will attend the clinic weekly for 6 weeks of a 7-week cycle to receive pralatrexate, and will be examined by the treating physician. One cycle of pralatrexate therapy is 7 weeks in duration and consists of 6 weekly doses of pralatrexate administered via intravenous (IV) push over 3-5 minutes, followed by 1 week of rest.

Evaluation of response must be performed within 7 days prior to the projected first dose of cycle 2-4 and then within 7 days prior to the projected first dose of every even-numbered subsequent cycle (ie, prior to cycles 6, 8, etc.). Although radiological response assessments have been scheduled every 14 weeks, unscheduled radiological response assessments will be performed earlier if clinical progression is suspected.

Treatment with pralatrexate will continue until 24 months of administration, or until documented disease progression; unacceptable adverse event(s) indicating intolerance of the lowest study dose allowed (20 mg/m2/week); omission of 3 sequential doses of pralatrexate due to a treatment-related AE; 3-week lapse between pralatrexate doses; development of an AE, intercurrent illness, condition, or procedural complication that may interfere with the subject's participation; investigator's decision to withdraw the subject; subject withdraws consent; pregnancy of the subject; noncompliance with trial treatment or procedure requirements; or administrative reasons.

Follow-up phase:

All patients who received at least 1 dose of pralatrexate are to attend the Safety Follow-up Visit \[30 (± 5) days after the last dose of pralatrexate\] and the protocol defined procedures and evaluations will be performed.

After the Safety Follow-up Visit, Routine Follow-up Visits will be based on standard clinical care. All patients who received at least 1 dose of pralatrexate are to attend Routine Follow-up Visits, which will occur every 3 months (± 2 weeks) for determination of progression of disease, subsequent treatment initiation for T-cell lymphoma and survival after the Safety Follow-up Visit for a total duration of 24 months after the last dose of pralatrexate. The protocol-defined procedures/evaluations should be performed at each Routine Follow-up Visit.