Aerobic Training in Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study is being done to examine the safety and feasibility of a supervised progressive exercise program in women diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer. Previous research among women with metastatic breast cancer has shown that some of the treatments commonly used in this population may have an adverse impact on physical fitness levels leading to feelings of fatigue and poor quality of life. Supervised exercise training has been shown to reduce some of these side-effects in women with early-stage breast cancer receiving common cancer treatments. However, it is not known if supervised exercise training is a safe and feasible intervention in women with metastatic breast cancer. This study is designed to find out if supervised exercise training is safe as the patients undergo treatments for metastatic breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Progressive Stretching Group|BEHAVIORAL: Nonlinear Aerobic Training|OTHER: Blood draw|OTHER: Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET)
safety of aerobic training, Safety will be evaluated by the type and prevalence of adverse events during study-related assessments as well as aerobic training and progressive stretching sessions. The NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE) will be used to grade toxicities during the trial., 2 years
feasibility of aerobic training, feasibility will be evaluated by examining several different end points including rates of study eligibility and accrual, etc; however, sample size calculations are based on an integration of aerobic training attendance rate (in the aerobic training group) as well as global trial attrition rates. Together, these end points will be used to determine overall study feasibility., 2 years
This study is being done to examine the safety and feasibility of a supervised progressive exercise program in women diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer. Previous research among women with metastatic breast cancer has shown that some of the treatments commonly used in this population may have an adverse impact on physical fitness levels leading to feelings of fatigue and poor quality of life. Supervised exercise training has been shown to reduce some of these side-effects in women with early-stage breast cancer receiving common cancer treatments. However, it is not known if supervised exercise training is a safe and feasible intervention in women with metastatic breast cancer. This study is designed to find out if supervised exercise training is safe as the patients undergo treatments for metastatic breast cancer.