Improvement of Quality of Life (QoL) Using Preference-Oriented QoLMonitoring in Patients with Lung Cancer
The purpose of the study is to determine whether a preference-oriented quality of life monitoring with defined diagnostic and therapeutic options improves quality of life in patients with lung cancer during routine follow-up care.
Lung Cancer|Quality of Life
BEHAVIORAL: patient- and physician-centered QoL monitoring|OTHER: Placebo
Proportion of patients with a need for QoL therapy in at least one dimension of the QoL profile at 6 months, proportion of patients in both groups with a need for QoL therapy (\<50 points) in at least one of eight dimensions of the QoL profile: global quality of life, shortness of breath, physical functioning, social functioning, fear of progression, emotional functioning, pain, financial impact, 6 months after study entry
Proportion of patients with a need for QoL therapy in each dimension of the QoL profile at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months, proportions of patients with a need for QoL therapy (\<50 points) in each single dimension of the QoL profile: global quality of life, shortness of breath, physical functioning, social functioning, fear of progression, emotional functioning, pain, financial impact, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 months after study entry
A pathway with quality of life (QoL) diagnosis and therapeutic options for patients with breast cancer and colorectal cancer has been successfully designed, implemented, and evaluated as guided by the Medical Research Council framework for developing and testing complex interventions. In two randomised controlled trials the investigators could demonstrate that patients with breast cancer and colorectal cancer had a benefit from the diagnosis of QoL deficits and tailored therapeutic options in their treatment in terms of a decrease in QoL deficits.

The next step is to extend usability of the QoL system so that it can be as well used by patients with other cancer diagnoses and in other study regions. Therefore, QoL will be assessed using an electronic patient- and physician-centered QoL monitoring system which is based on previous work of the research group. The QoL monitoring system is adapted based on results of a preliminary study using discrete choice experiments (DCE) identifying preferences of lung cancer patients and their physicians regarding the importance of individual QoL dimensions.

In this two-arm randomised, controlled, prospective, pragmatic, multicentre clinical trial with one intervention group and one control group QoL of primary lung cancer patients will be assessed with an electronic patient- and physician-centered QoL monitoring system using the quality of life questionnaires (QLQ) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer EORTC QLQ-C30 (core module) and QLQ-LC29 (lung cancer module) at study entry and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 months during follow-up care. Data of each patient's QoL will be linked with clinical data from the Bavarian Cancer Registry for the purpose of data analysis.

In the intervention group results of QoL monitoring are automatically transferred to a preference-based QoL profile including 8 dimensions on scales of 0-100 (cutoff of a "need for QoL therapy" \<50). Patients and their treating physicians receive the results of their QoL monitoring in real-time. In order to be able to treat QoL deficits a multi-professional network of therapists is established (e.g. pain therapy, psychotherapy, social support, nutrition counselling, physiotherapy, fitness, respiratory therapy, palliative care). In the intervention group patients and their physicians receive complete lists of QoL healthcare professionals of this network practicing in their region.

In the control group QoL is also measured but neither patients nor treating physicians have access to the results of QoL monitoring, but the therapist network is also available for this study arm.

The investigators expect that the proportion of patients in both groups with a need for QoL therapy (\<50 points in at least one dimension of the QoL profile) will be lower in intervention group patients compared with control group patients at the primary endpoint 6 months after study entry.