A Study of Elotuzumab With Pomalidomide, Bortezomib, and Dexamethasone in Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This research study is studying a combination of study drugs as a possible treatment for relapsed and refractory Multiple Myeloma. The interventions involved in this study are elotuzumab, pomalidomide, bortezomib, dexamethasone.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Elotuzumab|DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall response rate by International Myeloma Working Group criteria., To evaluate the objective response rate (partial response or better) of elotuzumab in combination with pomalidomide, bortezomib, and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed and refractory multiple myeloma and who have received at least two prior therapies and are relapsed and/or refractory to both lenalidomide and bortezomib., 2 years|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 2 years
Progression Free Survival, To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) of elotuzumab-PVD., 2 Years
This research study is a phase II clinical trial, the investigators are studying the safety and response rate of the combinations of elotuzumab, pomalidomide, bortezomib, dexamethasone (elo-PVD).

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved each of those drugs elotuzumab, pomalidomide, bortezomib, dexamethasone as a treatment option for Refractory or relapsed multiple myeloma.

Pomalidomide is a drug that changes that enhances or suppresses your immune systems reaction to a stimulus.This change may help the body destroy tumor cells. Bortezomib is an inhibitor that targets how cells dispose of unneeded proteins. By blocking this process, bortezomib can help destroy unwanted cells. Dexamethasone is a steroid, that helps prevent inflammation in a wide variety of organs and acts against myeloma cells. Elotuzumab is a monoclonal antibody, Elotuzumab targets a protein that is highly common on the surface of multiple myeloma cells called SLAMF7.

The combination of the drugs may provide an unique approach for treating the disease.