TiTAN-1: Safety, Proliferation and Persistence of GEN-011 Autologous Cell Therapy
TiTAN-1 is a first-in-human study of GEN-011, an experimental treatment being evaluated in adult patients with advanced cancer. GEN-011 is a T cell therapy made specific to each patient, using the patient's own circulating immune cells. First, Genocea confirms which cancer proteins are recognized already by each patient's T cells using ATLAS™. Then, immune cells that recognize these cancer proteins are multiplied many times (a process called PLANET™) to create a personalized GEN-011 cell therapy, which is given back to the patient in one or more intravenous (IV) infusions.
Melanoma|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck|Urothelial Carcinoma|Renal Cell Carcinoma|Small-cell Lung Cancer|Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Merkel Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: GEN-011|DRUG: IL-2|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Adverse events will be graded according to the NC Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0, 2 years after first GEN-011 infusion
T cell responses to GEN-011, Antigen-specific immunogenicity assays, 2 years after first GEN-011 infusion|Duration of response, Measured by RECIST, 2 years after first GEN-011 infusion|Progression-free survival, Length of time without disease progression, 2 years after first GEN-011 infusion|Overall survival, Length of time patient remains alive, From first GEN-011 infusion through study completion, at least 2 years
Immune cell phenotyping, Classification of peripheral immune cells via flow cytometry, 2 years after first GEN-011 infusion|Epitope Spread, Tumor mutations will be identified by gene sequencing at multiple timepoints, and comparing the differences in mutations over time, 4 weeks after first GEN-011 infusion|Tumor infiltrating immune cell, Quantitation and phenotyping of immune cells in proximity to tumor cells using immunohistochemistry, 2 years after first GEN-011 infusion
TiTAN-1 is an open-label, multicenter, first-in-human Phase 1 study of GEN-011 in patients with melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN), urothelial carcinoma (UC, bladder, ureter, urethra, or renal pelvis), renal cell carcinoma (RCC), small cell lung cancer (SCLC), cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC), or anal squamous cell carcinoma (ASCC). Patients will be enrolled into one of 2 cohorts. One cohort will receive a multiple low dose (MLD) regimen of GEN-011 to be given without lymphodepletion, and a second cohort will receive a single high dose (SHD) regimen of GEN-011 after lymphodepletion. Regardless of cohort, each dose of GEN-011 will be followed by a course of interleukin-2 (IL-2) as costimulatory therapy.

GEN-011 is an investigational, personalized neoantigen adoptive cell therapy (ACT) that is being developed by Genocea for the treatment of adult patients with advanced solid tumors. A proprietary tool developed by Genocea called ATLAS™ (Antigen Lead Acquisition System) will be used to identify true immunogenic neoantigens from each patient's tumor that are recognized by their own CD4 and/or CD8 T cells. ATLAS-identified neoantigens will be used to stimulate and select autologous T cells collected by apheresis to generate an adoptive cell product ex vivo.