Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy After Durvalumab and Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Stage IV Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer, CASPIAN-RT Trial
This phase II trial studies how well hypofractionated radiation therapy after durvalumab and chemotherapy works to shrink tumors in patients with stage IV extensive stage small cell lung cancer. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects than a conventionally fractionated radiation course. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as carboplatin, cisplatin, and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Adding radiation after chemo and immunotherapy may help improve cancer control.
Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Etoposide|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression free survival, The distribution of time to event outcomes will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals for median times will be determined using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. Confidence intervals around landmark times will be determined using Greenwood's formula for the variance and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as response. Means and/or medians will be calculated for continuous outcomes. Confidence bounds will be provided for means and quartiles and ranges for median values. All confidence bounds will be presented as 95% bounds., Up to 3 years
Incidence of grade 2 or higher pneumonitis, The incidence of grade 2 or worse pneumonitis attributable to treatment will be evaluated and compared against the CASPIAN trial results. All toxicities of all grades will be monitored on study and reported. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as toxicity., Up to 90 days after the last dose of durvalumab|Overall survival, The distribution of time to event outcomes will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals for median times will be determined using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. Confidence intervals around landmark times will be determined using Greenwood's formula for the variance and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as response. Means and/or medians will be calculated for continuous outcomes. Confidence bounds will be provided for means and quartiles and ranges for median values. All confidence bounds will be presented as 95% bounds., Up to 3 years|Response rate, The distribution of time to event outcomes will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals for median times will be determined using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. Confidence intervals around landmark times will be determined using Greenwood's formula for the variance and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as response. Means and/or medians will be calculated for continuous outcomes. Confidence bounds will be provided for means and quartiles and ranges for median values. All confidence bounds will be presented as 95% bounds., Up to 3 years|Healthcare related quality of life: EORTC QLQ-C30, Will be measured by European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30)., Up to 3 years|Healthcare related quality of life: EORTC QLQ-LC13, Will be measured by European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - QLQ-Lung Cancer (LC)13 (EORTC QLQ-LC13)., Up to 3 years
OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive standard of care chemotherapy consisting of carboplatin or cisplatin and etoposide. Patients also receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive durvalumab IV on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 5 or 6 of durvalumab, patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.