Efficacy and Safety of Standard of Care Plus Durvalumab in Patients with Limited Disease Small Cell Lung Cancer (DOLPHIN)
Combination of concomitant Radio-Chemotherapy showed a significant improvement (Takada) of OS and PFS in limited disease SCLC patients. This clinical trial is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label, parallel group phase II investigator initiated trial (ITT) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Durvalumab in combination with Cisplatin/Etoposide/Radiotherapy in patients with limited disease small-cell lung cancer (SCLC).
Small Cell Lung Cancer Limited Stage
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: standard of care
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) after 18 months according to iRECIST, 18 months
Progression-free survival (PSF) after other assessments, Time between first application of trial medication to date of disease progression or death due to any cause, 12 months|Overall survival (OS), Time between first application of trial medication to date of death due to any cause, 18 months|Overall response rate (ORR), Complete Response or Partial Response according to iRECIST, 18 months|Disease control rate (DCR), Complete Response, Partial Response or Stable Disease according to iRECIST, 18 months|Quality of Life Questionnaire - Cancer 30 (QLQ-C30), Symptom control assessed by patient-reported quality of life (QoL) with QLQ-C30. The score ranges from 0 to 100. The higher the score the better the outcome., 18 months|Quality of Life Questionnaire - Lung Cancer 13 (QLQ-LC13), Symptom control assessed by patient-reported quality of life (QoL) with QLQ-LC13. The scores ranges from 0 to 100. The higher the score the better the outcome., 18 months|EuroQol five dimension scale (EQ-5D), Symptom control assessed by patient-reported quality of life (QoL) with EQ-5D. The score consists of 5 items on a three step scale and a VAS scale ranging from 0 to 100. The lower the score on the three step scales the better the outcome and the higher the score on the VAS scale the better the outcome., 18 months|Adverse Events, Treatment emergent adverse events during treatment, 18 months
The trial is subdivided in a safety run-in phase and a randomized part with the induction phase (Radiochemotherapy ± Durvalumab and including prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI; if clinically indicated and according to local standard)) followed by the maintenance phase. The trial starts with the safety run-in phase of 6 patients in Durvalumab group. After the completion of the first cycle of all 6 patients a safety interim analysis will be performed. Study should be discontinued if ≥ 2 out of 6 patients within safety run-in phase (first cycle):

* show more than 2 AEs CTCAE grade ≥3 related to study drug Durvalumab
* or develop pneumonitis (CTCAE grade ≥2)
* or drop out, Otherwise, the trial can continue with randomization. Eligible patients will be randomized to Durvalumab group or standard of care group 2:1.

The safety interim analysis was performed in Q4 2021. The independent DMC has recommended the continuation of the trial.

Induction phase:

Durvalumab group: Cisplatin (75 mg/m² (BSA) D1#) or alternatively Carboplatin (AUC 5 D1) and Etoposide (100 mg/m² (BSA) D1-3) once every 3 weeks for 4-6 cycles and concomitant Radiotherapy (60±6 Gy, 1.8-2 Gy/d or 45±1.5 Gy (1.5 Gy per fraction twice daily, with 4 hours or more between fractions) with start at latest at beginning of cycle 3, ideally during cycle 1) and additional Durvalumab (1500 mg once every 3 weeks) for 4-6 cycles according to randomization followed by prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI, if clinically indicated and according to local standard at any time after completion of radio-chemotherapy))

Control group: Cisplatin (75 mg/m² (BSA) D1#) or alternatively Carboplatin (AUC 5 D1) and Etoposide (100 mg/m² (BSA) D1-3) once every 3 weeks for 4-6 cycles and concomitant Radiotherapy (60±6 Gy, 1.8-2 Gy/d or 45±1.5 Gy (1.5 Gy per fraction twice daily, with 4 hours or more between fractions with start at latest at beginning of cycle 3, ideally during cycle 1) followed by prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI, if clinically indicated and according to local standard at any time after completion of radio-chemotherapy)

# Due to the potential toxicity of Cisplatin 75 mg/m² D1, a Cisplatin split dose with 40 mg/m² on D1 and D8 is alternatively allowed. A switch from Cisplatin to Carboplatin AUC 5 D1 (due to new contraindication to Cisplatin) or split dose Carboplatin (AUC 2.5 D1 and D8) is also allowed. In case of initial contraindication to Cisplatin (i.e. renal dysfuction) at baseline, treatment can be started with Carboplatin once every 3 weeks (q21) AUC 5 D1, or split dose AUC 2.5 D1 and D8. A simultaneous administration of platinum-based chemotherapy (preferred Cisplatin) and radiotherapy for at least 2 cycles should be performed.

Maintenance phase:

In Durvalumab group patients will be treated with Durvalumab once every 4 weeks until disease progression (radiologic or clinical progression) or unacceptable toxicities, if patients show at least stable disease after induction phase. Patients with PD after induction phase will have EoT visit and will be followed up until death.

Patients in control group will have EoT visit and will receive standard of care treatment until PD and thereafter will be followed up until death.