AMG 479 in Advanced Carcinoid and Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors
The purpose of this research study is to determine the effectiveness of AMG 479 against carcinoid and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. AMG 479 is an antibody that is made in the laboratory. Antibodies are highly specific proteins produced by the body's immune system that recognize foreign substances in the body. AMG 479 has been used in other research studies and information from those other research studies suggests that AMG 479 may help to prevent the growth of some neuroendocrine tumors. The observed antitumor activity of AMG 479, together with the current limited treatment options available for patients with neuroendocrine tumors, warrant further investigation of AMG 479 in this patient population.
Neuroendocrine Tumor|Carcinoid Tumor|Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor
DRUG: AMG 479
Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate is the percentage of patients achieving partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) per RECIST 1.0 criteria. For target lesions, CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. CR or PR status must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no fewer than 4 weeks or more than 6 weeks after the response criteria are first met. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline, every 3 cycles (9 weeks) on treatment and at end of treatment. Patients in this study cohort received a median of 6 treatment cycles (18 weeks).
Duration of Response, The duration of response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR/PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline, every 3 cycles (9 weeks) on treatment and at end of treatment. Patients in this study cohort received a median of 6 treatment cycles (18 weeks).|Grade 3-4 Toxicity Rate, Grade 3-4 toxicity rate is the percentage of patients who experienced a grade 3 or 4 adverse event with treatment attribution of possible, probable or definite based on CTCAEv4., Toxicity was evaluated every cycle (3 weeks) on treatment. Patients in this study cohort received a median of 6 treatment cycles (18 weeks).|Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from the start of treatment to the date of the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause. Patients without an event were censored at the earliest date of last disease assessment or initiation of non-protocol anti-cancer therapy. Per RECIST 1.0 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline, every 3 cycles (9 weeks) on treatment and at end of treatment. Patients in this study cohort were followed up to 20 months.|1-Year Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from treatment start to the date of death or censored at the date last known alive. 1-year overall survival is the probability (%) of remaining alive 1 year from the start of treatment., Patients in this study cohort were followed up to 20 months.
Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) comprise a heterogeneous spectrum of neoplasms. NETs are commonly subclassified into two broad subgroups according to their site of origin: pancreatic NETs are thought to arise from the endocrine cells of the pancreas, whereas NETs of other sites such as the lungs or gastrointestinal tract are often referred to as carcinoid tumors. While histologically similar, carcinoid tumors and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors have demonstrated different response rates in prior phase II studies of antitumor agents. Because of these differences, we will perform the current study using two cohorts of patients (30 with carcinoid and 30 with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors). The statistical design, however, is the same for both cohorts. With 30 patients in each cohort, this study has 80% power assuming type I error of 6% to differentiate a \>/=17% objective response rate from a \</=5% objective response rate using a single stage design. The proposed regimen would be promising in either cohort if at least 4 of 30 patients achieve an objective response.