Individualized Comprehensive Treatment for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This project is a prospective, multi-center, multi-cohort exploratory clinical study. It focuses on patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who experience disease progression after first-line standard therapy. Based on different patterns of disease progression, patients will receive relevant systemic treatments, either with or without local interventional therapy. The primary endpoint is progression-free survival (PFS), while secondary endpoints include overall survival (OS), 1-year OS rate, objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), duration of remission (DOR), and safety. Additionally, the study will explore the correlation between patients' clinical pathological characteristics, serum biomarkers, and clinical efficacy.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma(HCC)
DRUG: FOLFOX4|DRUG: Adebrelimab|DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: Icaritin|DRUG: SHR-1701|DRUG: QL1706|DRUG: Bevacizumab|PROCEDURE: HAIC|PROCEDURE: Local treatment|DRUG: The original treatment regimen
PFS（Progression-free Survival）, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from treatment initiation on Day 1 to the earliest occurrence of radiologically confirmed disease progression, as assessed by tumor imaging, or death from any cause, whichever came first. Evaluations were conducted by the investigator in accordance with RECIST v1.1., 24 months
OS(Overall survival), Overall survival (OS) was defined as the duration from treatment initiation on Day 1 to death from any cause., 48 months|ORR(Objective response rate), Objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of subjects achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1, from the initiation of treatment on Day 1., 24 months|DCR(Disease control rate ), Disease control rate (DCR) was defined as the proportion of subjects achieving a complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) lasting ≥8 weeks, as assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1, from the initiation of treatment on Day 1., 24 months|DOR(Duration of Response), Duration of response (DOR) was defined as the time from the first documented objective response (CR or PR) to the earliest occurrence of radiological disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Both response and progression were evaluated by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1., 24 months
This project is a prospective, multi-center, multi-cohort exploratory clinical study. It focuses on patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who experience disease progression after first-line standard therapy. Based on different patterns of disease progression, patients will receive relevant systemic treatments, either with or without local interventional therapy. The primary endpoint is progression-free survival (PFS), while secondary endpoints include overall survival (OS), 1-year OS rate, objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), duration of remission (DOR), and safety. Additionally, the study will explore the correlation between patients' clinical pathological characteristics, serum biomarkers, and clinical efficacy.