ADLs at the End of Acute Treatment for Childhood Leukemia and Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
Reduced activity levels and reduced muscular strength could severely impair the activities of daily living (ADLs) in pediatric leukemia and Non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients. Increased muscle strength is associated with improved accomplishment of ADLs and consequently greatest possible normality, autonomy and mobility. This associated investigation to the study with the ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT03934060 aims at collecting data in a comparison cohort with respect to ADLs in children and adolescents who did not receive a standardized strenght training intervention during the whole course of treatment.
Childhood Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Assessment of the accomplishment regarding Activities of Daily Living at the end of acute treatment
Score of the Activities Scale for Kids - performance version, The ASK - Activities Scale for Kids performance version by NL Young assesses an overall summary score (0-100) of self-reported activities of daily living in children and adolescents. The scale monitors changes associated with therapeutic interventions and the current status of accomplishment of activities of daily living. Higher values represent a better outcome. The ASK contains 30 items in 7 sub-domains (personal care, dressing, other skills, locomotion, play, standing skills and transfer)., During the procedure
Motor Performance, Motor performance is assessed by the MOON-test (Motor performance test in Pediatiric Oncology), a tool to examine motor performance abilities in children and adolescents during and after cancer treatment. There's no summary score; reference values of healthy children enable comparison of the tested children., During the procedure|Performance in a Parkour in Activities of Daily Living, A standardized parkour with tasks imitating activities of daily living is used to objectively verify the ASK score. Points from 0-4 are counted for each task depending on quality of movement (0 = task can not be completed, 1 = task can be completed with help, 2 = task can be completed with several attempts, 3 = task can be completed with only little effort, 4 = task can be completed without any problems or effort). There are no reference values for the parkour, but intra-individual changes are analyzed., During the procedure
Reduced activity levels and reduced muscular strength could severely impair the activities of daily living (ADLs) in pediatric leukemia and Non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients. Increased muscle strength is associated with improved accomplishment of ADLs and consequently greatest possible normality, autonomy and mobility. This associated investigation to the study with the ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier NCT03934060 aims at collecting data in a comparison cohort with respect to ADLs in children and adolescents who did not receive a standardized strenght training intervention during the whole course of treatment.