Salvage Hypofractionated Accelerated Versus Standard Radiotherapy for Biochemical Failure After Prostatectomy
Patients with a biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy for moderate- or high- risk prostate cancer are randomly assigned to hypofractionated, accelerated high dose radiation therapy group (65 Gy, 26 fractions) and a control group of standard treatment group (66 Gy, 33 fractions). The criteria for stratification at randomization include 1) risk groups, 2) androgen deprivation therapy, and 3) PSA before salvage radiation therapy, which affect biochemical recurrence.

It is expected that hypofractionated, accelerated high dose radiation therapy will have a superiority in terms of biochemical control to conventional radiation therapy, and the present study would like to confirm this. In addition, we aimed to evaluate and compare the toxicity and quality of life index of two radiation therapy regimens.
Prostate Cancer|Biochemical Recurrence|Radiation|Hypofractionation|Dose Escalation|Survival|Radiation Toxicity|Quality of Life
RADIATION: Salvage radiation therapy
Biochemical recurrence-free survival, PSA \>0.2 ng/mLfollowed by a repeat measurement \>0.2 ng/mL, 5 years
Acute toxicities, Evaulation using CTCAE 4.0 Evaluation using CTCAE 4.0 CTCAE 4.0, Adverse effects occured during radiation therapy, and within 3 months after radiation therapy|Chronic toxicities, Evaulation using CTCAE 4.0, Adverse effects occured after 3 months since end of radiation therapy|Quality of life 1, Expanded prostate cancer index composite (EPIC) Questionnaire Korean version EPIC consists of 50 questions in total divided into four domains: bowel (14 questions), urinary (12 questions), sexual (13 questions), and hormonal aspects (13 questions).

Scores of each domain will be separately reported. Response options for each EPIC item form a Likert scale, and multi-item scale scores will be summed and transformed linearly to a 0-to-100 scale.

The higher the score, the higher the quality of life., the date of enrollment, up to 1 week after radiation therapy, 6 months, every year until 5 years|Quality of life 2, European Organization for Research and Treatment Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Korean version EORTC QLQ-C30 consists of 30 questions, and total score will be reported. Response options for each EPIC question form a Likert scale, and multi-item scale scores will be summed and transformed linearly to a 0-to-100 scale.

The higher the score, the higher the quality of life., the date of enrollment, up to 1 week after radiation therapy, 6 months, every year until 5 years
Patients with a biochemical recurrence after radical prostatectomy for moderate- or high- risk prostate cancer are randomly assigned to hypofractionated, accelerated high dose radiation therapy group (65 Gy, 26 fractions) and a control group of standard treatment group (66 Gy, 33 fractions). The criteria for stratification at randomization include 1) risk groups, 2) androgen deprivation therapy, and 3) PSA before salvage radiation therapy, which affect biochemical recurrence.

It is expected that hypofractionated, accelerated high dose radiation therapy will have a superiority in terms of biochemical control to conventional radiation therapy, and the present study would like to confirm this. In addition, we aimed to evaluate and compare the toxicity and quality of life index of two radiation therapy regimens.