Gumarontinib Combined With 3rd EGFR-TKI in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer.
This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of gumarontinib combined with third-generation EGFR-TKI in the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with MET amplification after first-line EGFR-TKI failure, without limiting the type of third-generation EGFR-TKI. The study was divided into 2 cohorts: Cohort 1 included patients with MET amplification after third-generation EGFR-TKI first-line therapy resistance, and cohort 2 included patients with MET amplification after first-generation EGFR-TKI first-line therapy resistance.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: gumarontinib|DRUG: third-generation EGFR-TKI (Osimertinib, Almonertinib or Furmonertinib)
Objective response rate, To investigate antitumor efficacy of study, proportion of patients with complete (CR) or partial response (PR)., From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication. Assessed up to 6 months.
Disease control rate, To investigate antitumor efficacy of study, proportion of patients with complete , partial or stable response (SD)., From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 months.|Duration of response, Time from first achieving CR or PR to the onset of disease progression (PD) or death, whichever occurs first, from first achieving CR or PR to the onset of disease progression (PD) or death, whichever occurs first, Assessed up to 36 months.|Progression free survival, To investigate antitumor efficacy of study. From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication, whichever came first., From initial medication to the date of first documented progression or end of medication, whichever came first. Assessed up to 24 months.|Overall survival, To investigate antitumor efficacy of study. From initial medication to the date of death from any cause., From initial medication to the date of death from any cause. Assessed up to 36 months.|Incidence of adverse events and severity of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE 5.0, To assess the incidence and severity of adverse events in combination regimens., Assessed except to 10 months.
This study evaluated the efficacy and safety of gumarontinib combined with third-generation EGFR-TKI in the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC with MET amplification after first-line EGFR-TKI failure, without limiting the type of third-generation EGFR-TKI. The study was divided into 2 cohorts: Cohort 1 included patients with MET amplification after third-generation EGFR-TKI first-line therapy resistance, and cohort 2 included patients with MET amplification after first-generation EGFR-TKI first-line therapy resistance. Patients will receive the combination until disease progression or intolerable toxicity. A total of 91 patients who met the inclusion and exclusion criteria were included in the study. The primary endpoint was ORR.