An Investigational Drug (TPST-1495) in Patients With Familial Adenomatous Polyposis
This open-label phase II trial tests how well TPST-1495 works in reducing the number of polyps in the small bowel and colon in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP). FAP is an inherited condition in which numerous polyps (growths that protrude from mucous membranes) form on the inside walls of the colon and rectum. It increases the risk for colon cancer. TPST-1495 binds to specific prostaglandin receptors. TPST-1495 is a dual antagonist of the prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) receptor subtypes EP2 and EP4, while sparing the immune-stimulating EP1 and EP3 receptors. TPST-1495 may help reduce the number of polyps in the small bowel and colon in patients with FAP.
Familial Adenomatous Polyposis
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: EP2/EP4 Antagonist TPST-1495|PROCEDURE: Esophagogastroduodenoscopy|PROCEDURE: Gastrointestinal Endoscopy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Percent change in duodenal polyp burden, Will be determined based on the sum of diameters from all polyps. Will be assessed by comparing upper gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopies respectively. Will be described using a two-sided 95% confidence interval and examined for difference from zero with a one-side paired t-test., Baseline to 6 months|Incidence of adverse events, Will examine the proportion of patients with grade 2 or 3 adverse events according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Will be summarized as a proportion with a 1-sided 90% confidence interval., Up to 7 months
Percent change in rectal/pouch polyp burden, Will be assessed by comparing the lower GI endoscopies. Results will be presented using summary statistics and corresponding confidence intervals., Baseline to 6 months
Percent change in immunohistochemical staining levels, Will assess rectal and duodenal tissue samples for COX-2 expression level, beta-catenin, and Ki-67. Mean percent change in immunohistochemical staining levels will be associated with intestinal polyp burden using a scatterplot of the two variables and evaluated using a Spearman rank correlation statistic., Baseline to 6 months|Proteomic profile, Will identify proteins that are statistically significantly differently expressed between patients after treatment. The proteomic profile of serum will be correlated to clinical response to therapy and compared between baseline and end of intervention. No formal statistical inference will be performed. Proteins will be described with summary statistics to assist in planning follow-up studies., Baseline to 6 months|TPST-1495 plasma concentrations, Will assess steady-state pharmacokinetics., At pre-dose and 2-and 4-hours post-dose at 3 months visit
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the activity of TPST-1495 in reducing duodenal polyp burden in patients with FAP.

II. To assess the safety of TPST-1495 in patients with FAP; we will evaluate the incidence of grade 2 or 3 adverse events.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. The activity of TPST-1495 in reducing rectum/IPAA (ileal pouch-anal anastomosis) polyp burden in patients with FAP.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Reduction in intestinal polyp burden as a function of immunohistochemical staining at baseline and end of intervention (6-months) of rectal and duodenal tissue samples for COX-2 expression level, beta-catenin, and Ki-67.

II. Proteomic profile of serum correlated to clinical response to therapy compared between baseline and end of intervention.

III. Biospecimen acquisition. IV. TPST-1495 concentrations in plasma at pre-dose, 2-, and 4-hours post-dose at month 3 visit to assess steady-state pharmacokinetics.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive TPST-1495 orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 6 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) and gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy with biopsy at baseline and end of treatment and undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month.