Capecitabine 7/7 Schedule With Neratinib in Patients With Metastatic HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
This is a phase l/II study. The purpose of this study is to test the safety of the study drug neratinib in combination with a standard chemotherapy drug called capecitabine at different doses to find out what effects, if any, it has on people. Capecitabine (Xeloda®) is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for advanced breast cancer treatment. Neratinib is an investigational drug, meaning the FDA has not approved the use of this drug for advanced breast cancer. The combination of capecitabine and neratinib has been studied before in another study where capecitabine was administered using the standard dosing schedule. In this study, the investigators want to find out if a different dosing schedule of capecitabine combined with neratinib is safer. This different dosing schedule is experimental, meaning the administration schedule of capecitabine and neratinib is not FDA approved for treatment for HER2 positive advanced breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Neratinib|BEHAVIORAL: EORTC QLQ - BR23, EQ-5D-5L, EORTC QLQ-C30
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), If 0 of the 3 patients entered at a dose level experiences a DLT, another 3 patients will be treated at the next higher dose level. If 1 of 3 patients in a cohort experiences a DLT, then up to 3 additional patients will be treated at the same dose level. If none of these 3 additional patients experience a DLT, then the dose will be escalated to the next higher dose level. If \> 2 of the initial 3 or 6 patients at a dose level experience a DLT, then the MTD will have been exceeded, and de-escalation is warranted. De-escalation will continue if \> 2 of the initial 3 or 6 patients in a dose level cohort experience a DLT. There will be 2 dose de-escalation levels (dose levels -1 and -2) and one dose escalation (dose level +1) as shown in the table below. If \< 1 of 6 patients, at that dose level, experience a DLT, then that dose level will be confirmed as the MTD., 1 year
This is a phase l/II study. The purpose of this study is to test the safety of the study drug neratinib in combination with a standard chemotherapy drug called capecitabine at different doses to find out what effects, if any, it has on people. Capecitabine (Xeloda®) is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for advanced breast cancer treatment. Neratinib is an investigational drug, meaning the FDA has not approved the use of this drug for advanced breast cancer. The combination of capecitabine and neratinib has been studied before in another study where capecitabine was administered using the standard dosing schedule. In this study, the investigators want to find out if a different dosing schedule of capecitabine combined with neratinib is safer. This different dosing schedule is experimental, meaning the administration schedule of capecitabine and neratinib is not FDA approved for treatment for HER2 positive advanced breast cancer.