Axi-cel in CNS Lymphoma
This research is being done to test the safety and effectiveness of axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi-cel), an anti-CD19 directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy in treating relapsed/refractory central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma, systemic lymphoma with concurrent CNS lymphoma, or systemic lymphoma with a history of treated CNS lymphoma, and to better understand what causes neurological toxicity following treatment with axi-cel.

The names of the study drug(s) involved in this study are:

* axicabtagene ciloleucel (axi-cel)
* ludarabine will be given with axicel to help axicel work more effectively
* cyclophosphamide will be given with axicel to help axicel work more effectively
Lymphoma|Lymphoma Cns
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Axicabtagene Ciloleucel
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE Version 5.0, Measured by the rate of TLTs and the rate of grade 3+ adverse events (AEs) regardless of attribution, Enrollment until 30 days after last dose of study treatment up to 24 Months
Objective response rate (ORR), CNS lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG) criteria Systemic lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by the Lugano 2014 criteria, 2 years|Complete response (CR) rate, CNS lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG) criteria Systemic lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by the Lugano 2014 criteria, 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), CNS lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG) criteria Systemic lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by the Lugano 2014 criteria, 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), CNS lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG) criteria Systemic lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by the Lugano 2014 criteria, 2 years|Overall survival (OS), CNS lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG) criteria Systemic lymphoma response assessment will be evaluated by the Lugano 2014 criteria, 2 years
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. This study will examine the safety and efficacy of axi-cel in participants who either currently or previously had had central nervous system involvement of their lymphoma.

The name of the study drug involved in this study is axi-cel. Axi-cel is a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy that is manufactured using a person's own white blood cells. A virus is used to introduce a gene that creates a protein (called a CAR) on the surface of T cells, a type of blood cell that fights infection and can eliminate cancer cells. The CAR on the T cells may bind to and kill cells that express CD19, a molecule that is found on B-cell lymphomas. CAR-T cells (including axi-cel) designed to target CD19, a protein present on B lymphocytes have been used to treat patients with CD19+ tumors. This adoptive cell therapy (ACT) approach has shown significant and durable clinical benefits in the treatment of CD19+ tumors. Axi-cel has been FDA approved for the treatment of relapsed and refractory aggressive B cell lymphomas that occur outside the central nervous system and have recurred after two or more prior therapies.

Participants will receive two chemotherapy medicines, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. These drugs are not intended as direct cancer treatment but instead to help axi-cel work with less interference from immune system cells.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including leukapheresis, evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment once and will be followed for up to 15 years.

It is expected that about 18 people will take part in this research study.

Kite Pharma, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing axi-cel.