Quaratusugene Ozeplasmid (Reqorsa) and Osimertinib in Patients With Advanced Lung Cancer Who Progressed on Osimertinib
The purpose of this randomized study is to determine the safety and efficacy of quaratusugene ozeplasmid (Reqorsa) added to osimertinib in NSCLC patients with activating EGFR mutations who have progressed while on treatment with osimertinib. Quaratusugene ozeplasmid consists of non-viral lipid nanoparticles that encapsulate a DNA plasmid with the TUSC2 tumor suppressor gene and is the first systemic gene therapy for cancer.

The study is comprised of a Phase 1 dose escalation portion and two Phase 2 portions evaluating safety and efficacy. Enrollment in the Phase 1 dose escalation portion is complete and the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) was determined. Phase 2a has initiated and enrolled patients are treated with quaratusugene ozeplasmid at the RP2D in combination with osimertinib. In Phase 2b, patients will be randomized to receive either quaratusugene ozeplasmid plus osimertinib or platinum-based chemotherapy.
Carcinoma, Non-Small Cell Lung
BIOLOGICAL: quaratusugene ozeplasmid|DRUG: osimertinib|DRUG: Platinum-Based Chemotherapy
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) - Phase 1, RP2D, which will be the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or, if the MTD is not defined by the safety data, RP2D will be determined based on an integrated assessment of all available clinical safety and preliminary efficacy data., First 21-day treatment cycle for each dose level cohort|Overall Response Rate (ORR) - Phase 2a, ORR (complete response \[CR\]+ partial response \[PR\]) according to RECIST using best overall response., Approximately 3 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) - Phase 2b, PFS from randomization to disease progression or death. Response according to RECIST., Approximately 11 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS) - Phase 1, PFS from first dose to disease progression or death. Response according to RECIST., Approximately 9 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) - Phase 1, ORR (CR+ PR) according to RECIST using best overall response., Approximately 3 months|Duration of Response (DOR) - Phase 1, DOR (CR + PR) from response to disease progression. Response according to RECIST., Approximately 9 months|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Quaratusugene Ozeplasmid - Phase 1, Concentration of quaratusugene ozeplasmid in whole blood samples., First 21-day treatment cycle|Progression-free Survival (PFS) - Phase 2a, PFS from first dose to disease progression or death. Response according to RECIST., Approximately 11 months|Time to Progression (TTP) - Phase 2a, TTP from first dose to disease progression. Response according to RECIST., Approximately 11 months|Overall Survival (OS) - Phase 2a, OS from first dose until death or discontinuation due to withdrawal of consent., Approximately 21 months|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Quaratusugene Ozeplasmid - Phase 2a, Concentration of quaratusugene ozeplasmid in whole blood samples., Approximately 22 days|Overall Response Rate (ORR) - Phase 2b, ORR (CR+ PR) according to RECIST using best overall response., Approximately 3 months|Time to Progression (TTP) - Phase 2b, TTP from first dose to disease progression. Response according to RECIST., Approximately 11 months|Duration of Response (DOR) - Phase 2b, DOR (CR + PR) according to RECIST from response to disease progression., Approximately 11 months|Overall Survival (OS) - Phase 2b, OS from randomization to death or discontinuation due to withdrawal of consent., Approximately 21 months|Incidence of Adverse Events - Phase 2b, Treatment-related adverse events (AEs) graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Approximately 11 months|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Quaratusugene Ozeplasmid - Phase 2b, Concentration of quaratusugene ozeplasmid in whole blood samples., Approximately 22 days
Acclaim-1 is an open-label, multi-center, Phase 1/2 study evaluating quaratusugene ozeplasmid (Reqorsa) plus osimertinib (investigational arm) versus platinum-based chemotherapy (control arm) in patients with advanced metastatic or recurrent NSCLC.

Toxicities will be assessed by the Investigator using United States National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0. Serious Adverse Events and Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) will be reviewed by a Safety Review Committee.

Phase 1 - Dose Escalation: The RP2D of quaratusugene ozeplasmid when given in combination with osimertinib has been identified.

Phase 2a: This expansion cohort will be enrolled to better characterize safety, tolerability, and preliminary anti-tumor activity of the combination therapy.

Phase 2b: Quaratusugene ozeplasmid in combination with osimertinib will be further evaluated using the RP2D identified in Phase 1. Patients may receive local therapy, such as radiation therapy, to progressing lesions prior to enrollment. Patients will be randomized to receive either the investigational arm or the control arm in a 1 to 1 ratio and stratified based on prior local radiotherapy.