Treatment of Primary Liver Tumors With Electrochemotherapy (ECT)
The aim of the study is to evaluate toxicity and effectiveness of electrochemotherapy with bleomycin in treatment of primary liver tumors in clinical study phase I and II.

The study will include 10 patients in phase I clinical study and additional 15 patients in phase II clinical study (or in the extension of the clinical study), which will fulfill inclusion criteria.

Treatment effectiveness will be evaluated by DCE-US or CT perfusion, to detect early events in tumor perfusion after ECT compared to tumor perfusion before ECT. Long term effectiveness of the treatment will be evaluated by modified RECIST criteria, which will take into account difference in size and density, determined from images obtained by CT perfusion of the treated tumor nodules before and after ECT. Tumor volume will be calculated by following formula , where a will be shorter and b longer tumor diameter.

The secondary objectives of the trial are to quantify the impact of the treatment on the patient's quality of life, tolerance to the therapy and suitability for larger study to be conducted.
Liver Cancer
PROCEDURE: Electrochemotherapy|DEVICE: Cliniporator Vitae®|DRUG: Bleomycin PHC 15 e. (United States Pharmacopeia - USP)
Number of Participants With Toxicity Related to Electrochemotherapy, Biochemistry, blood test and/or US, After operation on day 7
Clinical Response Evaluation According to RECIST v1.1, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI/CT:

Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, After operation on days 1, 7, 30, 60, 90, 120
The study will be conducted on patients with primary liver tumors. 10 patients will be included in phase I clinical study and additional 15 patients in phase II clinical study (or in the extension of the clinical study).

Depending on the position of tumors, appropriate electrodes will be selected; hexagonal needle electrodes with fixed geometry for tumors not larger than 3 cm in diameter, where lower edge of the tumor is located up to 3 cm below the liver capsule or longer single needle electrodes. Individual electrodes, positioned according to the prepared treatment plan will be used for tumors up to 7 cm in diameter, or located near vena cava or large hepatic or portal veins.

Electrochemotherapy will be performed within 8-28 min after intravenous in bolus administration of bleomycin (15 mg/m2).

Triggering of electric pulses will be synchronized with ECG signals, through the ECG triggering device AccuSync to avoid delivery of pulses in vulnerable period of the heart.

All patients will be treated after the procedure has been thoroughly described to them, and have signed informed consent.