Study on the Effectiveness and Safety of the Combination of the Two Drugs Regorafenib and Nivolumab in Patients With Colorectal Cancer (Cancer of the Colon or Rectum Classified as Proficient Mismatch Repair and Microsatellite Stable)
The purpose of this study is to learn if combination of the two drugs regorafenib and nivolumab is an effective treatment for pMMR - MSS colorectal cancer, a special type of cancer of the colon or rectum (pMMR stands for proficient Mismatch Repair; MSS stands for Microsatellite Stable) and whether it is safe for patients. Regorafenib works by blocking several different proteins involved in tumor growth. Nivolumab is an immunotherapy drug encouraging the body's own immune system to attack cancer cells.

Both drugs have been approved, but not for how they are being used as combination therapy in this study. Brand name of regorafenib is Stivarga; brand name of nivolumab is Opdivo.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Regorafenib (Stivarga, BAY73-4506)|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab (Opdivo)
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) v1.1 Assessed by Investigator, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR).

CR: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have decreased in size to have a short axis of \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Through database cut-off date of 11-NOV-2020 (Primary Completion Date) (up to 13 months)
Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined for responders only as the time from first documentation of response (i.e. CR or PR) until disease progression or death (if death without documented disease progression).

CR: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have decreased in size to have a short axis of \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Through last patient last visit (LPLV) at date of 28 MAR 2022 (up to 30 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR) at 8 and 16 Weeks, DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with tumor response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD).

CR: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have decreased in size to have a short axis of \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., At 8, 16, 24, 32 and 40 weeks|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was the time from first dose of study medication to disease progression or death, whichever was earlier., Through last patient last visit (LPLV) at date of 28 MAR 2022 (up to 30 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as time from first dose of the study treatment to death. For patients who did not die, OS was censored at the last time point at which the survival status was known to be alive., Through last patient last visit (LPLV) at date of 28 MAR 2022 (up to 30 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Different Severity Types of TEAEs Per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5, TEAEs were started during treatment or within the post-treatment time window (30 days after last dose of regorafenib and 100 days after last dose of nivolumab.).

TEAEs were summarized by system organ class (SOC) and preferred term, severity (based on CTCAE v5 grades). Laboratory data considered as AE were graded according to CTCAE v5.

Grade 1: Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated.

Grade 2: Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental activities of daily living.

Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care activities of daily living.

Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5: Death related to AE., 30 days after last dose of regorafenib and 100 days after last dose of nivolumab until study completion (up to 30 months)
The purpose of this study is to learn if combination of the two drugs regorafenib and nivolumab is an effective treatment for pMMR - MSS colorectal cancer, a special type of cancer of the colon or rectum (pMMR stands for proficient Mismatch Repair; MSS stands for Microsatellite Stable) and whether it is safe for patients. Regorafenib works by blocking several different proteins involved in tumor growth. Nivolumab is an immunotherapy drug encouraging the body's own immune system to attack cancer cells.

Both drugs have been approved, but not for how they are being used as combination therapy in this study. Brand name of regorafenib is Stivarga; brand name of nivolumab is Opdivo.