Selinexor Treatment of Advanced Relapsed/Refractory Squamous Cell Carcinomas
Open-label, multi-center, single-arm, Phase 2 study of oral selinexor in patients with SCC of the head and neck (HN-SCC; Cohort 1), lung (L-SCC; Cohort 2), or esophagus (E-SCC; Cohort 3) who have relapsed or have metastasis following chemotherapy.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Selinexor (KPT-330)
Percentage of Participants With Disease Control Rate (DCR) Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, DCR was defined as the best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD). CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<) 10 millimeters (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Participant response was evaluated by physical examinations and computed tomography (CT)/Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (or optional positron emission tomography \[PET\]/CT) and assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria., up to 14.6 months
Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An adverse event (AE) was defined as any unfavorable sign and unintended sign (including abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporarily associated with the use of the study drug, whether or not related to study drug. An SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that occurs at any dose (including after informed consent was signed and prior to dosing) that resulted in death, was life-threatening (participant was at immediate risk of death from event), required in-patient hospitalization (formal admission to a hospital for medical reasons) or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, resulted in a congenital anomaly/birth defect, and important medical events. A TEAE was defined as any AE with onset or worsening of a pre-existing condition on or after first dose of treatment through 30 days following last dose of study treatment, or any event considered drug-related by investigator through end of study., From the first administration of study drug up to 30 days follow-up (up to 14.6 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events by Severity: Clinical Terminology Categories for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Grading Scale, AE:Any unfavorable sign and unintended sign,symptom, or disease temporarily associated with use of study drug, whether or not related to it. SAE:Any untoward medical occurrence that occurs at any dose (after informed consent was signed, prior dosing) that resulted in death, life-threatening, in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect, and important medical events. TEAE:Any AE with onset or worsening of existing condition on or after first dose through 30 days following last dose of study drug, or any event considered drug-related by investigator through end of study. Severity(Grades 1 to 5) of each AE was categorized as either mild=1(transient,does not interfere with daily activities), moderate=2(low level of inconvenience or concern,interfere with daily activities), severe=3(interrupt usual daily activities), life threatening=4 or fatal=5, higher grade reported worst outcome., From the first administration of study drug up to 30 days follow-up (up to 14.6 months)
This is a multicenter, open-label, single-arm Phase 2 study of the SINE selinexor given orally to patients diagnosed with advanced SCC of the head and neck, lung, or esophagus who have experienced relapse and/or metastasis following multiple prior chemotherapy treatments (\<2 lines of therapy).

Patients will receive fixed doses of selinexor tablets twice weekly in 28-day cycles. Patients may continue from one cycle to the next without interruption as along as all criteria are met and no reason for discontinuation occurs.