A Cohort Study of Plasma Cell Disorders (PCDs) in PKUFH
The primary aim is to establish a prospective cohort of patients with plasma cell disorders (PCDs). All of the hospitalized PCD patients who are willing to sign the informed consent form (ICF) will be included in this study. Clinical characteristics, treatment options and responses will be collected. Peripheral blood, bone marrow aspirate and urine samples before and after the treatment will banked for future research. Our team will focus on the clinical and pathological features of PCDs, the correlation between the minimal residual disease (MRD) status and prognosis, and the role of Tumor Microenvironment (TME) in the pathogenesis and progress of PCDs.
Multiple Myeloma|Amyloidosis|Cryoglobulinemia|Castleman's Disease|Light Chain Deposition Disease|Heavy Chain Deposition Disease|Polyneuropathy Organomegaly Endocrinopathy Monoclonal Gammopathy and Skin Changes|Smoldering Multiple Myeloma|Plasma Cell Leukemia|Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance (MGUS)|Monoclonal Gammopathy of Renal Significance (MGRS)|Monoclonal Gammopathy of Neurological Significance (MGNS)
OTHER: No intervention
A Cohort Study of Plasma Cell Disorders (PCDs) in PKUFH, To measure the treatment response in the cohort study of PCDs in PKUFH.The treatment response is done according to the criteria of the International Myeloma Working Group (IWMG) of 2016., 10 years
Primary

1. To establish a prospective cohort of patients with PCDs in PKUFH.
2. To dynamically analyze the relation between MRD status and prognosis, and the possible role of TME in PCD patients.

Secondary To collect peripheral blood, bone marrow aspirate and urine samples from PCD patients for future study, such as the tumor clone selection and evolution.

OUTLINE: PCD patients enrolled in this study will be assessed at baseline, clinical and laboratory data and biological samples be collected. Follow-up will be done at the 1, 3, 6, 12 months and then yearly after treatment.