Venetoclax With High-dose Ibrutinib for CLL Progressing on Single Agent Ibrutinib
The purpose of the study is to investigate whether the combination of venetoclax and ibrutinib (administered up to 840 mg per day) might be useful for the treatment of CLL or SLL that is not responding or no longer responding to treatment with ibrutinib alone. The study will evaluate whether this regimen can reduce the amount of cancerous cells in your body. If you agree, you will receive ibrutinib at a dose of up to 840 mg a day by mouth, as well as venetoclax. Although both of these agents are approved by the FDA for the treatment of CLL or SLL, the combination and the dosing schedule of ibrutinib are considered experimental.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Ibrutinib
Maximum tolerated dose or biologically active dose., Maximum tolerated dose or biologically active dose., 1 year or more
Treatment-emergent adverse events, Treatment-emergent adverse events (description, timing, grade \[CTCAE v4.03\], severity, seriousness, and relatedness), 2 years or more|Overall response rate, Partial Response, Partial Response with Lymphocytosis, and Complete Response) based on international working group guidelines. Best overall response will be determined, 2 years or more|Progression free survival rate at completion of combination therapy, Progression free survival rate at completion of combination therapy, duration of response, as determined by International Working Group in CLL (iwCLL) criteria., 2 years or more|Stable disease rate, Stable disease rate (also based on 2008 iwCLL guidelines), also at the time of primary endpoint response assessment., 2 years or more
This is phase 1 study for patients with CLL or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) experiencing disease progression on single ibrutinib. This study will evaluate the optimal ibrutinib dose (including doses higher than 420 mg) when combined with venetoclax

During the screening period, patients will continue on ibrutinib at their previous tolerated dose, unless required to stop (e.g.: by a preceding clinical trial).

On cycle 1, day 1, the dose of ibrutinib will be assigned based on the dose cohort. Patients in cohort 1 will receive ibrutinib 420 mg PO daily. Patients in cohort 2 will receive ibrutinib 560 mg PO daily. Cohort 3 will be 840 mg PO daily.

On cycle 1, day 1, patients will initiate venetoclax. The dose of venetoclax will ramp-up from 20 mg PO daily to 400 mg PO daily over a 5 week period.

The primary safety endpoint is determination of DLTs during the first 35 days (completion of dose ramp up). The primary efficacy endpoint of overall response rate will be assessed on approximately Cycle 7, Day 1.

Rationale: The optimal management of patients that progress on ibrutinib, including those with acquired Btk or PLCg2 mutations, is not determined. In other cancers, continued treatment with small molecule inhibitors beyond disease progression provides significant benefit, with additional agents or adjustments to ablate the resistant subclone. Venetoclax is approved for the treatment of patients with CLL, and is well-tolerated and effective in high-risk disease, and so is an appropriate agent for this trial.