Incidence of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting Associated With Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide in Early Breast Cancer.
This is a prospective, multicenter, open label, non-comparative trial in Spain.

The primary objective of this study is to determine the complete response, defined as no vomiting and no use of rescue treatment, in women with early-stage breast cancer treated with one cycle of Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide and active therapy for the prevention of CINV (Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting) day 1, 5-hydroxytryptamine 3 (5-HT3) antagonist plus 3 days of dexamethasone. A second step (efficacy phase) is designed to examine the efficacy and tolerability of aprepitant in the second cycle among patients who failed to the previous CINV prevention treatment.

The study will focus on early-stage chemonaive breast cancer patients receiving docetaxel-cyclophosphamide and a 5-HT3 antagonist plus dexamethasone for the CINV prevention. The CINV incidence in those patients will be evaluated on the first cycle. All refractory patients, will be asked to participate in the second phase, where aprepitant on days 1, 2 and 3 will be added to their antiemetic regimen.

Assuming a drop out of 5%, 212 patients will be included in the study. It is anticipated that around 48 patients will enter the efficacy phase.

The duration of the study, from first patient visit to last patient visit will be approximately 21 months.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Aprepitant
Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Complete response is defined as no vomiting and no use of rescue treatment within the first cycle of Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide for the treatment of early-stage breast cancer patients. A vomiting episode is defined as one or more episodes of emesis (expulsion of stomach contents through the mouth) or retches (an attempt to vomit that is not productive of stomach contents). Distinct vomiting episodes are, by definition, separated by the absence of emesis and retching for at least 1 minute. The timing (date and time) of each vomiting episode will be recorded by the patient in each cycle diary at the time of occurrence. Assessments of efficacy will begin at the initiation of chemotherapy infusion (0 hours) until the morning of Day 6 (approximately 120 hours) after chemotherapy during 1-2 cycles., Up to 21 days after cycle 1 of chemotherapy treatment
Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR) in Cycle 2 for Patient Without Complete Response in Cycle 1, To evaluate in cycle 2 the efficacy of aprepitant (days 1, 2 and 3) as secondary prevention in patients without complete response in cycle 1. A vomiting episode is defined as one or more episodes of emesis (expulsion of stomach contents through the mouth) or retches (an attempt to vomit that is not productive of stomach contents). Distinct vomiting episodes are, by definition, separated by the absence of emesis and retching for at least 1 minute. The timing (date and time) of each vomiting episode will be recorded by the patient in each cycle diary at the time of occurrence. Assessments of efficacy will begin at the initiation of chemotherapy infusion (0 hours) until the morning of Day 6 (approximately 120 hours) after chemotherapy during 1-2 cycles., Up to cycle 2, and average of 6 weeks|Number of Participants With Treatment Related Adverse Events (AE) at Cycle 2, Events are related to the primary end point, they were collected only in the diary during the period of diary data collection (Day 1 to the morning of Day 6) for the cycle 2, unless they meet the definition of a serious adverse event., Cycle 2, and average of 3 weeks|Total Impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting on Daily Life by the Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire in Cycle 1, To determine the incidence of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting associated with the Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide regimen in early breast cancer patients, a Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire was collected on treatment Day 1 (prior to initiation of chemotherapy) and Day 6, which referenced the entire treatment period since the initiation of chemotherapy for non clinical responders (NCR) against clinical responders (CR).

The FLIE questionnaire is a validated, patient-reported instrument to measure the impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting on daily life. There are 18 items, each on a 7-point scale. Results are reported as a total score. For the purposes of this study, higher scores indicate less impairment on daily life as a result of nausea or vomiting (better outcome) (Maximum 126, Minimum 18)., Up to day 6|Impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea on Daily Life by the Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire in Cycle 1, To determine the incidence of nausea associated with the Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide regimen in early breast cancer patients, a Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire was collected on treatment Day 1 (prior to initiation of chemotherapy) and Day 6, which referenced the entire treatment period since the initiation of chemotherapy for non clinical responders (NCR) against clinical responders (CR).

The FLIE questionnaire is a validated, patient-reported instrument to measure the impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and vomiting on daily life. There are 9 nausea-related items, each on a 7-point scale. Results are reported as a nausea score. For the purposes of this study, higher scores indicate less impairment on daily life as a result of nausea (better outcome) (Maximum 63, Minimum 9)., Up to day 6|Impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Vomiting on Daily Life by the Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire in Cycle 1, To determine the incidence of vomiting associated with the Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide regimen in early breast cancer patients, a Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire was collected on treatment Day 1 (prior to initiation of chemotherapy) and Day 6, which referenced the entire treatment period since the initiation of chemotherapy for non clinical responders (NCR) against clinical responders (CR).

The FLIE questionnaire is a validated, patient-reported instrument to measure the impact of vomiting on daily life. There are 9 vomiting-related items, each on a 7-point scale. Results are reported as a vomiting score. For the purposes of this study, higher scores indicate less impairment on daily life as a result of vomiting (better outcome) (Maximum 63, Minimum 9)., Up to day 6|Total Impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting on Daily Life by the Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire in Cycle 2, To determine the total incidence of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting associated with the Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide regimen in early breast cancer patients, a Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire was collected on treatment Day 1 (prior to initiation of chemotherapy) and Day 6, which referenced the entire treatment period since the initiation of chemotherapy for non clinical responders (NCR) against clinical responders (CR).

The FLIE questionnaire is a validated, patient-reported instrument to measure the impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting on daily life. There are 18 items, each on a 7-point scale. Results are reported as a total score. For the purposes of this study, higher scores indicate less impairment on daily life as a result of nausea or vomiting (better outcome) (Maximum 126, Minimum 18)., Up to day 6|Impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea on Daily Life by the Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire in Cycle 2, To determine the incidence of Nausea associated with the Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide regimen in early breast cancer patients, a Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire was collected on treatment Day 1 (prior to initiation of chemotherapy) and Day 6, which referenced the entire treatment period since the initiation of chemotherapy for non clinical responders (NCR) against clinical responders (CR).

The FLIE questionnaire is a validated, patient-reported instrument to measure the impact of Nausea on daily life. There are 9 items, each on a 7-point scale. Results are reported as a nausea score. For the purposes of this study, higher scores indicate less impairment on daily life as a result of nausea (better outcome) (Maximum 63, Minimum 9)., Up to day 6|Impact of Chemotherapy-Induced Vomiting on Daily Life by the Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire in Cycle 2, To determine the incidence of vomiting associated with the Docetaxel-Cyclophosphamide regimen in early breast cancer patients, a Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire was collected on treatment Day 1 (prior to initiation of chemotherapy) and Day 6, which referenced the entire treatment period since the initiation of chemotherapy for non clinical responders (NCR) against clinical responders (CR).

The FLIE questionnaire is a validated, patient-reported instrument to measure the impact of vomiting on daily life. There are 9 items, each on a 7-point scale. Results are reported as a vomiting score. For the purposes of this study, higher scores indicate less impairment on daily life as a result of vomiting (better outcome) (Maximum 63, Minimum 9)., Up to day 6
Sample size We want to obtain an estimation of the percent of the patients that we assume won't have a response to the treatment against vomiting. Reviewing bibliography, we think that the percent is approximately 25%.

We are going to obtain an estimation of this percent with an accuracy of +/- 6%, with a bilateral confidence level of 95% bilateral. Whit all this premises it would be needed 201 patients.

Assuming a drop out of 5%, 212 patients will be included in the study.

A maximum of 212 patients will be included in the trial. It is anticipated that around 48 patients will enter the efficacy phase.

APPROXIMATE DURATION OF THE STUDY. Inclusion period: 18 months approximately. Estimated follow-up: December 2012 Estimated date of end of study: June 2013