Anti-angiogenesis Agent AG-013736 in Patients With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
The primary purpose of this protocol is to determine the activity of AG 013736 in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer who have received 1 prior cytokine-based therapy.
Kidney Neoplasms
DRUG: Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor [VEGFR] and Platelet-Derived Growth Factor Receptor [PDGFR] inhibitor
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR), Percentage of participants with OR based assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Confirmed responses are those that persist on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR are defined as the disappearance of all lesions (target and/or non target). PR are those with at least 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions., Baseline until the date of first documented progression or discontinuation from the study due to any cause, assessed every 8 weeks up to 139 weeks
Time to Disease Progression (TTP), Time in days from start of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to cancer, whichever comes first. TTP was calculated as (first event date minus the date of first dose of study medication plus 1). Tumor progression was determined from oncologic assessment data (where data meet the criteria for progressive disease \[PD\])., Baseline until the date of first documented progression or discontinuation from the study due to any cause, assessed every 8 weeks up to 139 weeks|Duration of Response (DR), Time in days from the first documentation of objective tumor response to objective tumor progression or death due to any cancer. Duration of tumor response was calculated as (the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to cancer minus the date of the first CR or PR that was subsequently confirmed plus 1). DR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with a confirmed objective tumor response., Baseline until the date of first documented progression or discontinuation from the study due to any cause, assessed every 8 weeks up to 139 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), Time in days from the start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (the death date minus the date of first dose of study medication plus 1). Death was determined from adverse event (AE) data (where outcome was death) or from follow-up contact data (where the participant current status was death). For participants who were alive, overall survival was censored at the last contact., Baseline to death due to any cause or at least 1 year after the initial dose for the last treated participant|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Version 3.0 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30: included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status, symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting) and single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhea and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4 point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'; 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'very poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms. Change from baseline=Cycle/Day score minus baseline score., Baseline, Days 29, 57, 113, 169, 225, 281, 337, 393, 449, 505, 561, 617, 673, 729, 785, 841, 897, 953 and follow-up visit after last dose
Population Pharmacokinetics of Axitinib (AG-013736), Data for this Outcome Measure are not reported here because the analysis population includes participants who were not enrolled in this study. ClinicalTrials.gov is designed for reporting results from only those participants who were enrolled in the study and described in the Participant Flow and Baseline Characteristics modules., Day 1 (Pre-dose), Day 29, Day 57 and then every 8 weeks up to 139 weeks
The primary purpose of this protocol is to determine the activity of AG 013736 in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer who have received 1 prior cytokine-based therapy.