Carfilzomib, Iberdomide (CC-220) and Dexamethasone (KID) in Transplant Eligible Multiple Myeloma
This is a multi-institution, open label, phase I/II study of Iberdomide, Carfilzomib, and dexamethasone (KID) in patients with newly diagnosed transplant eligible MM.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Iberdomide|DRUG: Oral Dexamethasone
Rate of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs), Rate of patients with treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) overall and per dose level, Measured after cycle 4 of induction KID (each cycle is 28 days)|CR and sCR, Evaluation of the rate of complete remission (CR) + stringent complete (sCR) remission for patients receiving 2-4 cycles of the combination of KID followed by ASCT in patients with newly diagnosed MM., Measured after cycle 4 of induction KID (each cycle is 28 days)
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Assessment of overall response rate (ORR) of newly diagnosed transplant-eligible MM patients., Participants will be followed for response assessment every 28 days until progression of disease or a subsequent myeloma regimen has been started. On treatment study duration will last up to 12 months; Post treatment follow up will last up to two years.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Assessment of progression-free survival (PFS) of newly diagnosed transplant-eligible MM patients., Participants will be followed for response assessment every 28 days until progression of disease or a subsequent myeloma regimen has been started. On treatment study duration will last up to 12 months; Post treatment follow up will last up to two years.|Overall Survival (OS), Assessment of overall survival (OS) of newly diagnosed transplant-eligible MM patients., Participants will be followed for response assessment every 28 days until progression of disease or a subsequent myeloma regimen has been started. On treatment study duration will last up to 12 months; Post treatment follow up will last up to two years.
This is a multi-institution, open label, phase I/II study of Iberdomide, Carfilzomib, and dexamethasone (KID) in patients with newly diagnosed transplant eligible MM.

As part of a dose escalation phase, the first 10 patients will be enrolled at dose level -1 (Iberdomide 1.1 mg po daily days 1-21). Two months after the first 10 patients have completed at least 2 cycles of therapy in dose level -1, an Independent Safety Review Committee will review the safety data. Assuming the combination is determined to have adequate safety and tolerability, 10 patients will be enrolled at dose level 1 (Iberdomide 1.3 mg po daily days 1-21). After an independent safety review two months after 10 patients have completed at least 2 cycles of therapy in dose level 1, the remaining 46 patients will be enrolled at dose level 2 (Iberdomide 1.6 mg po daily days 1-21).

Treatment will continue for up to 4 cycles (28 days) at the physician's discretion followed by the Autologous Stem Cell Transplant. Patients will be followed every 3 months for up to 2 years, or until disease progression or the start of a new line of therapy.