A Study Comparing the Combination of Trabectedin (YONDELIS) and DOXIL/CAELYX With DOXIL/CAELYX for the Treatment of Advanced-Relapsed Epithelial Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of trabectedin+DOXIL as a third-line chemotherapy regimen (treatment) in patients with platinum-sensitive advanced-relapsed epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer who received 2 previous lines of platinum-based chemotherapy.
Ovarian Neoplasms|Peritoneal Neoplasms|Fallopian Tube Neoplasms
DRUG: Trabectedin|DRUG: DOXIL|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: DOXIL
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death. Participants who died, regardless of the cause of death, were considered to have had an event., Up to 4.3 years
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of disease progression or death. PFS was assessed using the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1. As per criteria progressive disease in case of target lesions means at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeter (mm). Progressive disease in case of non-target lesions means unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. In both cases the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to 4.3 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with measurable disease achieving a best overall response of either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels in non-target lesions. PR: at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions or persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) or/and maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits., Up to 4.3 years
This is a randomized (individuals assigned to study treatment by chance), open - label (identity of assigned study drug will be known), active - controlled study in adult female patients with platinum-sensitive advanced - relapsed epithelial ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer who received 2 previous lines of platinum - based chemotherapy. Approximately 670 participants will be enrolled. Patients will be stratified by 4 criteria defined in the protocol and randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to the trabectedin+DOXIL combination therapy group (Arm A) or to the DOXIL (pegylated liposomal doxorubicin) monotherapy group (Arm B). During the treatment phase, patients will receive study drug infusions according to 21 - day cycles in Arm A and 28 - day cycles in Arm B. Treatment will continue until the occurrence of disease progression or unacceptable treatment toxicity, or until 2 cycles after assessment of a complete response (CR). Efficacy assessments will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors. Disease assessments, including assessments for patients who discontinue treatment for reasons other than disease progression, will be performed until disease progression, the start of subsequent anticancer therapy, withdrawal of consent, or the clinical cutoff date. Collection of survival status will continue until at least 514 deaths have been observed or until the clinical data cutoff date. Serial pharmacokinetic (PK) samples will be collected in a subset of patients who voluntarily consent to the PK portion of the study. Safety will be monitored throughout the study. An interim analysis of overall survival (OS) will be performed after approximately 308 participants have died. The final analysis of OS will occur when approximately 514 deaths have been observed or until the clinical cutoff date. As of Amendment 6, no new participants will be randomized to study treatment, and treatment with trabectedin should be immediately discontinued for participants assigned to Arm A (trabectedin+DOXIL). All study participants (Arm A or Arm B) currently on study who, in the opinion of the investigator, are deriving clinical benefit may continue treatment with single-agent DOXIL as per the local standard of care.