GW572016 In Patients With ErbB2 Over - Expressing Advanced Or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study (EGF104911) is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lapatinib in patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Eligible subjects must have ErbB2 overexpressing tumors and are refractory to treatment with anthracycline, taxanes and trastuzumab containing regimens. The study data obtained from EGF104911 will be combined with the data from EGF100642 and integrated analysis will be carried out in order to enhance the credibility of the study results.
Neoplasms, Breast
DRUG: lapatinib
Overall Tumor Response, Tumor response was measured as the number of participants achieving either a complete response (CR; disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR; 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions) among all participants who received study treatment. Tumor response was evaluated as the best response in accordance with response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST). Progressive disease: a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Stable disease: small changes that do not meet the above-mentioned criteria., Baseline and then followed every 4 weeks until disease progression or death. If treatment was terminated due to adverse events, then followed every 12 weeks until disease progression is noted.
Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the time between the point at which efficacy was noted until disease progression or death due to breast cancer., First noted efficacy to disease progression; baseline and followed every 4 weeks until disease progression or death. If treatment was terminated due to adverse events, then followed every 12 weeks until disease progression is noted.|Time to Progression, Time to progression was defined as the time from the start of treatment until disease progression or death. Disease progression is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Baseline to disease progression or death; baseline and then followed every 4 weeks until disease progression or death. If treatment was terminated due to adverse events, then followed every 12 weeks until disease progression or death.|Clinical Benefit, Clinical benefit was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response, partial response, and stable disease for more than 24 weeks., Time at which all participants had been followed for at least 24 weeks; baseline and then followed every 4 weeks until disease progression (DP) or death. If treatment was terminated due to adverse events, then followed every 12 weeks until DP or death.|Time to Response, Time to response was defined as the time from the start of treatment until first documented evidence of partial or complete tumor response (whichever status is recorded first)., Time at which all participants had been followed for at least 24 weeks; baseline and then followed every 4 weeks until disease progression (DP) or death. If treatment was terminated due to adverse event, then followed every 12 weeks until DP or death.|4-month Progression Free Survival, The percentage of participants without progression or deaths at 4 months (16 weeks) after the start of dosing., Baseline to Month 4 (Week 16)|6-month Progression Free Survival, The percentage of participants without progression or deaths at 6 months (24 weeks) after the start of dosing., Baseline to Month 6 (Week 24)|Overall Survival, Overall survival was measured as the time between the start of dosing until death, regardless of cause., Start of dosing to death; baseline and then followed every 4 weeks until death while on treatment. If alive at time of treatment termination, then followed every 12 weeks until death.|Mean Phosphorylated 58 kDa Serine/Threonine Protein Kinase (p-AKT) H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of AKT, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean p-BAD H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of BAD, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean Bcl-2 H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of Bcl-2, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 3 (ErbB3) H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of ErbB3, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 4 (ErbB4) H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of ErbB4, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean Phosphorylated Extracellular Signal-regulated Kinase (p-ERK) H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of ERK, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured.using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean Heregulin H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of Heregulin, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean Insulin-like Growth Factor 1 Receptor (IGF1R) H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of IGF1R, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean Survivin H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of Survivin, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline|Mean Terminal Deoxynucleotidyl Transferase Biotin-dUTP Nick End Labeling (TUNEL) H Score for All Participants, Intra-tumoral expression levels of TUNEL, a tumor tissue biomarker, were measured using immunohistochemistry methods that incorporated both intensity and distribution of staining. A value designated the H score was derived by summing the percentages of cells staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining (0, 1+, 2+, 3+: 3+ indicates the strongest staining, 2+ indicates medium staining, 1+ indicates weak staining, and 0 indicates no staining). Minimum score of 0 to a maximum score of 300; the maximum score indicates the strongest expression., Tumor samples taken at baseline
This study (EGF104911) is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lapatinib in patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Eligible subjects must have ErbB2 overexpressing tumors and are refractory to treatment with anthracycline, taxanes and trastuzumab containing regimens. The study data obtained from EGF104911 will be combined with the data from EGF100642 and integrated analysis will be carried out in order to enhance the credibility of the study results.