Swallowing Rehabilitation in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer Receiving Radiotherapy
Head and neck cancer has a negative impact in swallowing function and quality of life. Rehabilitation has proven its usefulness after radiation therapy (RT), but some studies suggest that interventions should be initiated prior to RT sessions. This study aims to evaluate the effects of prophylactic rehabilitation on swallowing and quality of life. The study pretends to establish a preventive rehabilitative program with the target of reducing RT side effects and improve patients' quality of life.
Cancer of Head and Neck
OTHER: Early rehabilitation|OTHER: Late rehabilitation
Change in dysphagia severity at three months post radiotherapy, 8-point Penetration Aspiration Scale: scores of 1-2 indicate normal swallowing, 3-5 reflect penetration, and \>6, aspiration, 2 weeks before beginning radiotherapy, and 3 months after completing radiotherapy|Change in quality of life at three months post radiotherapy, Head \& Neck Cancer 35 (HN35), 2 weeks before beginning radiotherapy and 3 months after completing radiotherapy
Change in dysphagia security signs at three months post radiotherapy, Security signs (tone of voice, coughing during or after eating, or desaturation of more than 3% compared to baseline pulse oximetry) assessed with the Volume Viscosity Swallow Test, 2 weeks before beginning radiotherapy and 3 months after completing radiotherapy|Change in lingual Force at three months post radiotherapy, Lingual Force: maximum isometric tongue pressure of three peak isometric tongue pressure scores assessed with the IOPI system., 2 weeks before beginning radiotherapy and 3 months after completing radiotherapy
Head and neck cancer has a negative impact in swallowing function and quality of life. Although current diagnostic and therapeutic protocols try to preserve swallowing and speaking, acute or late dysphagia as well as a poor quality of life are frequent in these patients.

Some studies have reported an improvement in swallowing function after an exercise based intervention following radiation therapy (RT), regardless the need of concomitant chemotherapy (RT-QT). Other studies focus the interest in the use of prophylactic exercises to prevent or minimize post-swallowing dysfunction.

Patients receiving RT or RT-QT refer worsening of their quality of life, especially during the first days after treatment. One study suggests that rehabilitation prior to cancer treatment could potentially improve quality of life. However, this observation should be contrasted with a randomized study.