Testing the Addition of Venetoclax or Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin (GO) to Usual Treatment Regimen (Cytarabine and Daunorubicin, "7+3") for Core Binding Factor Acute Myeloid Leukemia (CBF-AML) to Improve Response (A MyeloMATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II MyeloMATCH treatment trial compares the effect of venetoclax to gemtuzumab ozogamicin, when given with cytarabine and daunorubicin ("7+3" regimen), for the treatment of patients with core binding factor acute myeloid leukemia (CBF-AML). Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Gemtuzumab ozogamicin is a monoclonal antibody, called gemtuzumab, linked to an antitumor antibiotic drug, called ozogamicin. Gemtuzumab is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as CD33 receptors, and delivers ozogamicin to kill them. Chemotherapy drugs, such as cytarabine and daunorubicin work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving venetoclax with cytarabine and daunorubicin may have fewer side effects and be as effective or better than the combination with gemtuzumab ozogamicin in treating patients with core binding factor AML.
Core Binding Factor Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Venetoclax
Complete remission without measurable residual disease (CRMRD-), MRD will be evaluated by Molecular Diagnostics Network flow cytometry and will be defined at a threshold of \< 10\^-3., At end of induction (Up to 28 days)
Rate of complete remission (CR), Defined as the number of evaluable patients achieving a response of CR per European Leukemia Network (ELN) 2022 criteria at the end of treatment divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Rates of response will be compared between treatment arms using a chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test as needed). Point estimates will be generated for CR rate within each arm along with 95% confidence intervals using the Clopper-Pearson method., At the end of treatment (Up to 28 days)|Rate of composite CR, Defined as the number of evaluable patients achieving a response of CR or complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi) or complete remission with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) per ELN 2022 criteria at the end of treatment divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Rates of response will be compared between treatment arms using a chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test as needed). Point estimates will be generated for CR rate within each arm along with 95% confidence intervals using the Clopper-Pearson method., At the end of treatment (Up to 28 days)|Overall survival (OS), The distribution of OS will be estimated using method of Kaplan-Meier. The median OS and 95% confidence interval will be reported., From registration until death due to any cause, up to 5 years|Event free survival (EVS), Induction failure is defined as not achieving either CR, CRh or CRi by after induction therapy. The distribution of EFS will be estimated using method of Kaplan-Meier, and compared using log-rank tests. The median EFS and the corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported., From randomization to induction failure, hematologic relapse from CR/CRh/CRi or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, up to 5 years|Cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR), The distribution of CIR will be estimated using Fine-Gray model and reported via hazard ratios and 95% confidence interval with p values., From the date of achievement of a remission until the date of hematologic relapse, up to 5 years|Cumulative incidence of death (CID), The distribution of CID will be estimated using Fine-Gray model and reported via hazard ratios and 95% confidence interval with p values., From the date of achievement of a remission to death without prior relapse, up to 5 years|Rate of early death at 30 days (ED-30), ED-30 is defined as the total number of patients who died on or before day 30 from randomization divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Rate of early death at day 30 will be compared between treatment arms using a chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test as needed). Point estimates will be generated for ED-30 rate within each arm along with 95% confidence intervals using the Clopper-Pearson method., At 30 days|Rate of early death at 60 days (ED-60), ED-60 is defined as the total number of patients who died on or before day 60 from randomization divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Rate of early death at day 60 will be compared between treatment arms using a chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test as needed). Point estimates will be generated for ED-60 rate within each arm along with 95% confidence intervals using the Clopper-Pearson method., At 60 days|Incidence of adverse events, As per national Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns. The incidence of severe (grade 3+) adverse events or toxicities will be described for each treatment arm and will also be compared between the arms. Fisher's exact tests will be used to quantitatively compare the incidence of severe as well as specific toxicities of interest between the treatment arms and we will graphically assess differences in maximum grades observed for toxicities between the arms., Up to 5 years|Evaluate mutant RAS and mutant KIT as predictive biomarkers for CRMRD- rate, In cohort 1, subgroup analysis will be conducted to evaluate the treatment effect among RAS mutated patients using Kaplan Meier methods and log-rank tests; similar subgroup analysis will be done among KIT mutated patients., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Compare the rates of complete remission (CR) without measurable residual disease (CRMRD-) by multiparameter flow cytometry following induction therapy between the two treatment arms in each cohort separately.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the rates of CR and composite complete remission (CRc) (CR+complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery \[CRi\]+complete remission with partial hematologic recovery \[CRh\]) between the treatment arms.

II. To compare the overall survival (OS) between the treatment arms. III. To compare the event-free survival (EFS). IV. To compare cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR). V. To compare cumulative incidence of death (CID) between the treatment arms. VI. To compare the rate of early death at 30 days and 60 days between the treatment arms.

VII. To assess the rate and frequency of adverse events between treatment arms. VIII. To evaluate mutant RAS and mutant KIT as predictive biomarkers for CRMRD- rate in CBF AML.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare MRD (and its clinical implication, e.g., relapse rates) between flow cytometry (FC) and next generation sequencing (NGS)-based (RUNX1::RUNX1T1 or CBFB::MYH11).

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the frequency and clinical impact of variant allele frequency (VAF) of KIT mutation, KIT mutations in different exons (e.g., exon 8 or 17), CD33 expression, additional (secondary) mutations and cytogenetic abnormalities.

II. To evaluate the differences in clinical and molecular outcomes in patients with RUNX1::RUNX1T1 mutated versus CBFB::MYH11 mutated CBF AML.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 regimens.

REGIMEN 1: Patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 4, cytarabine IV, continuously, on days 1-7 and daunorubicin IV on days 1-3 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care consolidation/post-remission treatment at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients undergo echocardiography or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan during screening and bone marrow aspiration and biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may also undergo optional buccal swab collection throughout the study.

REGIMEN 2: Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-11, cytarabine IV, continuously, on days 2-8 and daunorubicin IV on days 2-4 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care consolidation/post-remission treatment at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients undergo echocardiography or MUGA scan during screening and bone marrow aspiration and biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may also undergo optional buccal swab collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at relapse and every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months until 5 years.