Megestrol Acetate With or Without Pterostilbene in Treating Patients With Endometrial Cancer Undergoing Hysterectomy
This phase II trial studies how well megestrol acetate with or without pterostilbene works in treating patients with endometrial cancer undergoing hysterectomy. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as megestrol acetate, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Pterostilbene is an antioxidant found in blueberries or grapes, and it has been shown to be effective in killing tumor cells and reducing cancer burden. It is not yet known whether giving megestrol acetate with or without pterostilbene may work better in treating patients with endometrial cancer.
Atypical Endometrial Hyperplasia|Endometrial Carcinoma
DRUG: Megestrol Acetate|BIOLOGICAL: Pterostilbene
Tumor Ki-67 proliferation index, Ki-67 represents a specific nuclear marker for cell proliferation that is measured by staining with specific antibodies by immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. The Ki-67 proliferation index is defined as percent tumor cells staining positive, and measured on a continuous scale of 0-100%, with higher values indicating higher proliferation. We will compare treatment-associated change in Ki-67 proliferation index between the 2 study arms, using a 1-sided test with significance at p \< 0.05. Ki-67 values will be assessed at two time-points during this study, prior to treatment with megace +/- pterostilbene (pre-treatment), and following completion of treatment (post-treatment). Using a generalized estimating equation to take into account the repeated assessment of subjects (pre and post treatment), analysis will use a generalized linear regression model of Ki-67 index. Adjustment for potential confounding factors will be made as appropriate., Pre- and post-treatment up to 6 weeks
Histologic response of gland cellularity, These histologic changes represent measures of growth and apoptosis, and will be separately scored in the pretreatment endometrial sample and the section of tumor from the hysterectomy (post-treatment sample). Gland cellularity will be assessed by counting the number of cells in one quarter of a high-power field (HPF) (average of 3 fields). This secondary outcome measure will be entered into a generalized linear regression model (with Poisson distribution in the case of count data) to explore whether the effect of treatment differs between treatment arms., Up to 6 weeks|Histologic response of mitotic index, These histologic changes represent measures of growth and apoptosis, and will be separately scored in the pretreatment endometrial sample and the section of tumor from the hysterectomy (post-treatment sample). The mitotic index will be calculated as the number of mitoses per HPF (average of 3 fields). This secondary outcome measure will be entered into a generalized linear regression model (with Poisson distribution in the case of count data) to explore whether the effect of treatment differs between treatment arms., Up to 6 weeks|Histologic response of metaplasia, These histologic changes represent measures of growth and apoptosis, and will be separately scored in the pretreatment endometrial sample and the section of tumor from the hysterectomy (post-treatment sample). The percentages of tumor that display squamous or mucinous metaplasia will be estimated as percentages, with \< 10% considered negative and \>= 10% as positive. This secondary outcome measure will be entered into a generalized linear regression model (with Poisson distribution in the case of count data) to explore whether the effect of treatment differs between treatment arms., Up to 6 weeks|Histologic response of eosinophilic cytoplasm, These histologic changes represent measures of growth and apoptosis, and will be separately scored in the pretreatment endometrial sample and the section of tumor from the hysterectomy (post-treatment sample). The percentages of tumor that display cytoplasmic eosinophilia will be estimated as percentages, with \< 10% considered negative and \>= 10% as positive. This secondary outcome measure will be entered into a generalized linear regression model (with Poisson distribution in the case of count data) to explore whether the effect of treatment differs between treatment arms., Up to 6 weeks|Immunohistochemical expression of Bcl-2 to assess tumor growth and apoptosis, Immunohistochemistry stains with antibodies directed against Bcl-2 will be performed on pre- and post-treatment endometrial samples. Samples will be scored on a continuous scale (0-100%) using the product of the intensity of cytoplasmic staining, and the proportion of cells staining based on the distribution of staining. This secondary outcome measure will be entered into a generalized linear regression model (with Poisson distribution in the case of count data) to explore whether the effect of treatment differs between treatment arms., Pre- and post-treatment up to 6 weeks|Immunohistochemical expression of Casp3 to assess tumor growth and apoptosis, Immunohistochemistry stains with antibodies directed against Casp3 to assess apoptosis will be performed on pre- and post-treatment endometrial samples. Samples will be scored by counting the number of positive staining nuclei per HPF. This secondary outcome measure will be entered into a generalized linear regression model (with Poisson distribution in the case of count data) to explore whether the effect of treatment differs between treatment arms., Pre- and post-treatment up to 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the effect of megestrol acetate (MA) plus pterostilbene (PTE) versus MA alone on tumor proliferation (Ki-67) during the preoperative window in patients with endometrial cancer (EC) who are scheduled for hysterectomy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the effect of MA plus PTE versus MA alone on histologic response during the preoperative window in patients with EC or endometrial complex atypical hyperplasia who are scheduled for hysterectomy.

II. Explore biological characteristics of tumors to determine potential biomarkers which could select for treatment eligibility in future studies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive pterostilbene orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and megestrol acetate PO BID for 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive megestrol acetate PO BID for 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks.