Molecular Breast Imaging and Digital Breast Tomosynthesis in Screening Patients With Dense Breast Tissue
This study compares molecular breast imaging (MBI) and digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) in screening patients with dense breast tissue. Breast imaging may help doctors find breast cancer sooner, when it may be easier to treat. Molecular breast imaging (MBI) uses an injection of a small amount of radioactive material that is taken up in tissues of the body that are actively changing, such as breast cancer. A specialized camera, called a gamma camera, takes pictures of the gamma rays emitted by this material. MBI may detect cancers that are not visible on mammograms. This study may help researchers determine how MBI testing compares to DBT screening.
Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Digital Tomosynthesis Mammography|RADIATION: Scintimammography
Rate of detection of invasive cancers, Will compare the rate of detection of invasive cancers between DBT alone versus (vs.) the combination of digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) with supplemental molecular breast imaging (MBI) at year 0 screening. For each modality, the detection rate of invasive cancers will be estimated as the proportion of participants in the analysis set who had an invasive cancer detected by the modality and verified by pathology. Because of the paired design, the primary comparison of the invasive cancer detection rates will be made using a 2-sided McNemar's test at statistical significance level alpha= 0.05., At year 0 screening
Rate of detection of invasive cancers, Will compare the rate of detection of invasive cancers between DBT alone vs. MBI alone at Year 0 screening. The comparison will be based on a 2-sided McNemar's test at statistical significance level alpha= 0.05., At year 0 screening|Screening performance metrics of sensitivity, Sensitivity will be estimated for each modality as the proportion of women with breast cancer who have true positive test results. Will be analyzed to compare performance of DBT alone vs. MBI alone, and DBT alone vs. the combination of DBT with supplemental MBI. Uncertainty in the estimate of sensitivity will be quantified through a two-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) based on the binomial distribution. If a sufficient number of radiologists interpret exams from multiple patients with breast cancer, secondary analysis may also include a 95% CI and chi-squared test adjusted for clustering of results within radiologist to allow generalization to both the population of patients and the population of radiologists., At year 0 and year 1 screening|Screening performance metrics of specificity, Specificity will be estimated as the proportion of women without breast cancer who have TN test results. Will be analyzed to compare performance of DBT alone vs. MBI alone, and DBT alone vs. the combination of DBT with supplemental MBI., At year 0 and year 1 screening|Screening performance metrics of recall rate, Recall rate (defined as the proportion of patients recalled from the screening test for diagnostic workup among the total number of patients screened) will be estimated employing analytical strategies similar to sensitivity and specificity. McNemar's test will be used to compare rates between two modalities. Will be analyzed to compare performance of DBT alone vs. MBI alone, and DBT alone vs. the combination of DBT with supplemental MBI., At year 0 and year 1 screening|Screening performance metrics of biopsy rate, Biopsy rate (defined as the proportion of patients in whom biopsy is generated from a particular modality among the total number of patients screened) will be estimated employing analytical strategies similar to sensitivity and specificity. McNemar's test will be used to compare rates between two modalities. Will be analyzed to compare performance of DBT alone vs. MBI alone, and DBT alone vs. the combination of DBT with supplemental MBI., At year 0 and year 1 screening|Screening performance metrics of positive predictive value and negative predictive value, Predictive values will be estimated for each modality based on data pooled across radiologists. Positive predictive value (PPV)1 (the proportion of patients with breast cancer among patients with abnormal screening examinations), PPV3 (the proportion of breast cancers diagnosed among biopsies performed), and negative predictive value (NPV) (the proportion of patients without breast cancer among those with normal screening examinations) will be determined. Will be analyzed to compare performance of DBT alone vs. MBI alone, and DBT alone vs. the combination of DBT with supplemental MBI., At year 0 and year 1 screening|Characteristics of all cancers (invasive and noninvasive) detected on DBT and MBI, Will compare tumor characteristics of all cancers (invasive and noninvasive) detected on DBT and MBI, including size, nodal status, and molecular subtype. The analysis comparing tumor characteristics will be descriptive. Size, nodal status, and molecular subtype (including estrogen and progesterone receptor status, HER-2 status, Ki-67 and Oncotype DX score as available) will be abstracted from clinical final pathology reports from all biopsies and surgeries performed. The distribution of sizes will be summarized by ordinary numeric (e.g., means, standard deviations \[SDs\], range) and graphical (e.g., histograms, density smoothers) summaries. Descriptive summaries of the lesions identified with MBI but not DBT and vice versa will also be calculated to understand the differences in performance should one be identified., At year 1 screening|Change in advanced cancer rate with incorporation of MBI screening, Will assess whether the incorporation of MBI screening reduces advanced cancer rate, the rate of advanced cancers detected at Year 1 screening will be compared to the rate at Year 0 screening. The rates of advanced cancers, together with their respective 95% confidence intervals, will be estimated for Year 0 and Year 1. Comparison in the rates between Year 0 and Year 1 will utilize the test of two proportions based on exact binomial distributions., At year 0 and year 1 screening|Rate of interval cancers with incorporation of MBI screening, We will estimate the rate of interval cancers from our study and provide a 95% confidence interval., At year 0 and year 1 screening|Relative performance of DBT and MBI within subgroups categorized by breast cancer risk, The relative performance of the screening modalities (sensitivity and specificity) will be characterized separately, within subgroups of patients defined by various levels of risk. The statistical power to discern differential performances of the screening modalities among different risk subgroups may be limited due to the restricted sample size in these subgroup analyses., At year 0 and year 1 screening
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the rate of detection of invasive cancers between digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) alone versus (vs.) the combination of DBT with supplemental MBI at year 0 screening.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the invasive cancer detection rates of DBT alone vs. MBI alone at year 0 screening.

II. To compare the screening performance metrics of sensitivity, specificity, recall rate, biopsy rate, positive predictive value and negative predictive value for DBT and MBI.

III. To compare tumor characteristics of all cancers (invasive and noninvasive) detected on DBT and MBI, including size, nodal status, and molecular subtype.

IV. To assess the reduction in advanced cancer rate with incorporation of MBI screening by comparing advanced cancer rate observed at year 1 screening relative to that at year 0.

V. To assess the rate of interval cancers with incorporation of MBI screening. VI. To examine the relative performance of DBT and MBI within subgroups categorized by breast cancer risk.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo DBT and MBI at year 0 and year 1 screening.