Moderate Hypofractionated Radiotherapy for Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the incidences of Grade III and above radiation-reduced esophagitis and radiation-reduced pneumonia of patients with advanced lung cancer treated with moderate hypofractionated (3Gy/f) radiotherapy, and their predictors. Efficacies are also evaluated.
Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Hypofractionated radiotherapy
Incidence of grade III and above radiation-reduced esophagitis, Incidence of grade III and above radiation-reduced esophagitis, three years|Incidence of grade III and above radiation-reduced pneumonitis, Incidence of grade III and above radiation-reduced pneumonitis, three years
Objective Response Rate, ORR, three years|Local Control Rate, LCR, three years|Progression Free Survival, PFS, three years|Median Survival Time, MST, three years|Overall Survival, OS, three years
Radiotherapy plays an irreplaceable role in lung cancer. However, due to the long duration of conventional fractionation irradiation, tumor cells will accelerate repopulation after 3 to 4 weeks during radiotherapy, resulting in decreased efficacy. Hypofractionated radiation is increasingly used in radiotherapy of lung cancer. It can shorten the overall treatment time, and can potentially reduce the effect of tumor accelerated repopulation. Compared with conventional radiotherapy, hypofractionated radiotherapy can theoretically obtain a higher biological effective dose (BED). The application of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) or Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy (SABR) in advanced or central lung cancer is restricted when the tumors are adjacent to important organs. Moderate hypofractionated radiotherapy can not only shorten the overall total treatment time, but also reduce the severe toxicities. It is widely used in lung cancer nowadays. However, most data of the tolerated doses for normal tissue and organs comes from conventional radiotherapy. Whether or not it is suitable for hypofractionated radiotherapy has not been determined. In our study, the incidences of Grade III and above radiation-reduced esophagitis and radiation-reduced pneumonia, as well as their predictors, were obtained by retrospective analysis of patients received moderate hypofractionated radiotherapy of 3Gy/f. At the same time, the efficacies of this scheme are also evaluated.