BKM120 in Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of the study drug, BKM120. The study drug, BKM120, is an inhibitor of a protein called phosphatidyl inositol-3-kinase (PI3K). This protein is found in normal cells and in cancer cells, but often in many cancer cells this protein is overactive. Inhibiting the protein may slow the growth of prostate cancer but this has not been tested yet in men with prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer|Metastatic (Spread to Other Areas of the Body)
DRUG: BKM120
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) Criteria or Based on the Onset of a Skeletal Related Event., Time in months from the start of study treatment to the date of first progression or death due to any cause. Progression was determined either radiographically using a composite of the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2) criteria or clinically as judged from a skeletal-related event, need for change in therapy, or clinical deterioration. Patients alive who had not progressed as of the last follow-up had PFS censored at the last follow-up date. Median PFS was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve.

Response and progression are evaluated using a combination of Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) and guidelines for prostate cancer endpoints developed by the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group (PCWG2). Per RECIST, progression is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 5 years
Radiologic Response, The number of patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Response and progression is evaluated using a combination of the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) and the guidelines for prostate cancer endpoints developed by the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group (PCWG2). Per RECIST, progression is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 2 years|Number of Participants With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Number of patients experiencing grade 3-5 adverse events as defined by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 28 days post last study drug dose. This is the follow-up safety visit.|Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Response, The number of patients with a 30% and 50% decrease in PSA from baseline., 2 years|Overall Survival of Participants., Time in months from the start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. Patients alive as of the last follow-up had OS censored at the last follow-up date. Median OS was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve., 5 years|Change in Circulating Tumor Cell (CTC) Levels From Baseline, The number of patients with a baseline CTC level of at least 5 who achieved a CTC level of less than 5 during the study., 2 years|Time to New Metastatic Disease From the Baseline Visit, Time in days from the start of study treatment to time of new metastatic disease. Time to new metastatic disease is, defined from the date of first study agent administration to the onset of a new evaluable site of disease as per PCWG2 and RECIST 1.1 guidelines, excluding the primary site and all sites documented at baseline will be assessed. Only those patients that experienced a new lesion per this definition are included., 5 years
This is an open label, single arm phase II study of BKM120 in men with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) who have progressed on or following completion of docetaxel-based chemotherapy. Prior progression on cabazitaxel, provenge, abiraterone, or enzalutamide (MDV3100) is also permitted. Patients must have baseline evaluations performed prior to the first dose of study drug and must meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria. Results of the baseline evaluations, which assure that all inclusion and exclusion criteria have been satisfied, must be reviewed by the Principal Investigator or his/her designee prior to enrollment of that patient. In addition, the patient must be thoroughly informed about all aspects of the study, including the study visit schedule and required evaluations and all regulatory requirements for informed consent. The written informed consent must be obtained from the patient prior to protocol-specific screening tests. The following criteria apply to all patients enrolled onto the study unless otherwise specified.