Durvalumab in Combination With Tremelimumab in Subjects With Advanced Rare Solid Tumors
This is an investigator initiated single institution, open-label study to evaluate the antitumor activity, safety, and tolerability of durvalumab in combination with tremelimumab in subjects with select advanced rare solid tumors.
Cancer|Rare Disease
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab
Antitumor Activity, To evaluate the antitumor activity of durvalumab in combination with tremelimumab based on immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria, 24 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent and Non Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], To assess the safety and tolerability of durvalumab in combination with tremelimumab, 24 months
Expression of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1), To evaluate the pharmacodynamic activity of durvalumab in combination with tremelimumab in the tumor microenvironment, 24 months
This is an investigator initiated single institution, open-label study to evaluate the antitumor activity, safety, and tolerability of durvalumab in combination with tremelimumab in subjects with select advanced rare solid tumors. The dose-exploration phase, conducted across a range of tumor types, has been completed. The dose-expansion phase is ongoing and includes certain soft tissue sarcomas, neuroendocrine tumors and thymic carcinoma. Therefore, subjects diagnosed with any of those rare tumors are excluded from this trial. Given the safety and tolerability data in the previous and ongoing studies (Study D4190C00010 and D4190C00006), the selected dose for evaluation in all subjects enrolled in this trial is as follows:

Durvalumab, 1500 mg Q4W (equivalent to 20 mg/kg Q4W) intravenously for 13 doses and Tremelimumab 300 mg intravenously as a single dose on cycle 1 day 1 only. Weight-based dosing should be utilized for patients \<30 kg: durvalumab 20 mg/kg and tremelimumab 1 mg/kg. Tremelimumab will be administered first and the infusion duration will be approximately 1 hour. The durvalumab infusion will start approximately 1 hour after the end of the tremelimumab infusion and the infusion will be administered over approximately 1 hour.

The project Surveillance of Rare Cancers in Europe (RARECARE) collected data on cancers from 89 population-based cancer registries in 21 European countries, making it possible to study the epidemiology of these cancers as a whole in a large and heterogeneous population. Working from this database and the literature, a RARECARE working group produced a new list of cancers and developed a new definition of rare cancers (incidence \< 6/100,000/year). This definition and working list are adopted for this rare tumor immunotherapy study.