Nutrition and Exercise Prehabilitation to Reduce Morbidity Following Major Liver Surgery in Sarcopenic Patients
NEXPREM is a single-center non-blinded randomized controlled trial investigating preoperative exercise and nutrition for sarcopenic patients in major hepatic surgery for liver malignancies. Patients with sarcopenia undergoing major hepatectomies have high rates of postoperative complications. Previous studies have demonstrated that preoperative rehabilitation with exercise and nutrition may help reduce the negative impact of sarcopenia. The investigator's hypothesis is that preoperative nutrition and exercise may reduce complications in sarcopenic patients undergoing major hepatectomies. Sarcopenic patients at diagnosis will be randomized in Group A undergoing upfront surgery and Group B undergoing preoperative rehabilitation. Outcome will be overall 90 day morbidity.
Liver Cancer|Surgery|Sarcopenia
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutrition|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise
Number of participants experiencing 90 day morbidity, Patients experiencing complications within 90 days of surgery, 90 days
Number of participants experiencing 90 days postoperative major complications according to Clavien-Dindo classification, 90 days|Number of participants experiencing 90 days postoperative mortality., 90 days|Number of participants being readmitted within 90 days of surgery., 90 days|Number of participants being Sarcopenic after 6 weeks of prehabilitation., 6 weeks|Number of participants Alive ( Overall Survival), 3 years|Number of participants being disease free (Disease free survival), 3 years
NEXPREM is a single-center non-blinded randomized controlled trial investigating preoperative exercise and nutrition for sarcopenic patients in major hepatic surgery for liver malignancies. Patients with sarcopenia undergoing major hepatectomies have high rates of postoperative complications. Previous studies have demonstrated that preoperative rehabilitation with exercise and nutrition may help reduce the negative impact of sarcopenia. The investigator's hypothesis is that preoperative nutrition and exercise may reduce complications in sarcopenic patients undergoing major hepatectomies. Sarcopenic patients at diagnosis will be randomized in Group A undergoing upfront surgery and Group B undergoing preoperative rehabilitation. Outcome will be overall 90 day morbidity.