EXTEND Exercise Trial
This study will examine the effect of supervised exercise training on cardiopulmonary function in men receiving the combination of enzalutamide (ENZ) and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for treatment of non-metastatic, hormone-naïve prostate cancer. No study to date has examined the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of exercise training to prevent and/or mitigate common adverse toxicities in men receiving combination androgen suppression therapy for hormone-naïve prostate cancer.
Non-metastatic, Hormone naïve Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Androgen deprivation therapy|BEHAVIORAL: Supervised exercise training
Change in VO2peak in Usual Care Versus Exercise Training Arms, Mean change in peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) from week 1 to week 17 in the usual care and exercise training groups, From week 1 to week 17
17-week Change in Functional Capacity as Measured by Chair-stand Test, Mean change in number of seconds to perform the chair-stand test between baseline and week 17. This test measures the time taken to complete 5 repetitions of the sit-to-stand maneuver from a chair without an arm rest at 43 cm in height and 47.5 cm in depth. This test provides an indicator of functional performance of lower body strength; quicker times indicate greater strength, Baseline to 17 weeks|17-week Change in Upper and Lower Extremity Maximal Muscular Strength, Mean change in upper and lower extremity maximal muscular strength as measured by the voluntary one-repetition max (1-RM) and muscular endurance as measured by 70% of 1-RM between week 17 and baseline, Baseline to 17 weeks|Effects on Serum Glucose, Mean change in fasting serum glucose between week 17 and baseline., Baseline to 17 weeks|Change in the Effect on Patient Reported Outcomes (PROs) of Interest Over Time, Mean change in PROs aggregate score between week 17 and baseline. PROs include the FACT-Prostate (FACT-P, range 0 to 104), FACIT-Fatigue (FACIT-F, range 0 to 52), and the Godin Leisure Questionnaire. Higher scores indicate better quality of life., Baseline to 17 weeks|Eligibility Rate, Eligibility rate is defined as the number of subjects found to be eligible divided by the number approached for the study. Note that ineligible subjects are not randomized. This is reported as a percent., 29 months from study initiation|Acceptance Rate, Acceptance rate is defined as the number of patients agreeing to participate divided by total number randomized. This is reported as a percent., 29 months from study initiation|Adherence Rate, Adherence rate is defined as the percentage of days that each patient fulfilled the assigned exercise prescription of the 48 days. The median percentage is reported., 48 days|Attrition Rate, Attrition rate is defined as the percent of subjects who complete the 16 week exercise training program. This outcome applies only to the exercise arm., 16 weeks|17-week Change in Functional Capacity as Measured by Time Up and Go Test, Mean change in number of seconds to complete the timed up and go test between week 17 and baseline. This test requires patients to stand up from a chair with armrests, walk 3m, turn around, return to the chair, and sit down, Baseline to 17 weeks|17-week Change in Functional Capacity as Measured by Six Minute Walk Test, Mean change in distance covered during the six minute walk test between week 17 and baseline. This test requires patients to cover the longest distance possible in six minutes under the supervision of an exercise physiologist or designee., Baseline to 17 weeks|17-week Change in Muscle Cross-sectional Area (CSA), Mean change in muscle cross sectional area of the dominant quadricep, hamstring, and total mid-thigh between week 17 and baseline. Cross-sectional area was measured using magnetic resonance imaging with a 3.0T-scanner., Baseline to 17 weeks|Effects on Serum Insulin, Mean change in fasting serum insulin between week 17 and baseline., Baseline to 17 weeks|Effects on Blood Hemoglobin (Hgb), Mean change in blood hemoglobin (Hgb) A1C between week 17 and baseline., Baseline to 17 weeks|Effects on Body Composition, Mean change in lean body mass and fat body mass between week 17 and baseline as measured by a DEXA Scan., Baseline to 17 weeks
This study will examine the effect of supervised exercise training on cardiopulmonary function in men receiving the combination of enzalutamide (ENZ) and androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for treatment of non-metastatic, hormone-naïve prostate cancer. No study to date has examined the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of exercise training to prevent and/or mitigate common adverse toxicities in men receiving combination androgen suppression therapy for hormone-naïve prostate cancer.