Association Between Circulating Immune Cells and the Tumor Immune Contexture in Resectable Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
With the recent approval of Nivolumab for second-line treatment of stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), immune checkpoint inhibitors are entering the standard of care for lung cancer. Other immune checkpoint inhibitors are under evaluation, both in resectable and non-resectable NSCLC. In order to refine our use of these molecules, comprehensive data on the immune contexture of NSCLC are needed. Moreover,a blood marker of this contexture would allow physicians to monitor the immune status of their patient's tumor and though to evaluate the rightful place of immunotherapy in the multimodal treatment of NSCLC. No such blood marker has been validated so far. The LYMPHOLUNG study investigate the concordance between blood and intratumoral counts of immune cells in resectable stage I to IIIA NSCLC. By the use of 30-marker cytometry, a precise immune profile of NSCLC will be depicted. The prognostic value of the circulating and intra-tumoral T regulator over total lymphocytes ratio for 2-year recurrence-free survival will also be addressed.
Resectable Non-small Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: blood drawn|PROCEDURE: surgical resection of cancer
Level of expression of the T regulator over total lymphocytes count ratio in the blood, Day 1|Level of expression of the T regulator over total lymphocytes count ratio into the tumor, Day 1
Number of cell population counts as blood markers for the corresponding population in the tumor, Day 1|Number of patient alive 2 years after resection, 2 years
With the recent approval of Nivolumab for second-line treatment of stage IIIb/IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), immune checkpoint inhibitors are entering the standard of care for lung cancer. Other immune checkpoint inhibitors are under evaluation, both in resectable and non-resectable NSCLC. In order to refine our use of these molecules, comprehensive data on the immune contexture of NSCLC are needed. Moreover,a blood marker of this contexture would allow physicians to monitor the immune status of their patient's tumor and though to evaluate the rightful place of immunotherapy in the multimodal treatment of NSCLC. No such blood marker has been validated so far. The LYMPHOLUNG study investigate the concordance between blood and intratumoral counts of immune cells in resectable stage I to IIIA NSCLC. By the use of 30-marker cytometry, a precise immune profile of NSCLC will be depicted. The prognostic value of the circulating and intra-tumoral T regulator over total lymphocytes ratio for 2-year recurrence-free survival will also be addressed.