Clinical Observation of S1 Capsule for Stage Ⅱ-ⅢA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer After Complete Resection
The purpose of this study is to evaluate S1 capsule plus Cisplatin as adjuvant treatment in stageⅡ and Ⅲa non-small cell lung cancer. It is the first study in the world to investigate the safety and efficacy of S1 capsule using in stageⅡ and Ⅲa non-small cell lung cancer patients after the complete resection.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage Ⅱ|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage ⅢA
DRUG: S1 capsule|DRUG: Vinorelbine
Disease free survival rate, 2 years
Disease free survival, The period from the date of enrollment to the date on which the recurrence was first confirmed. For patients who died before disease progression from any cause, death was attributed to recurrence., 4 years|Overall survival, The period from the date of enrollment to the date of death from any cause., 4 years|Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, The incidences of adverse events were calculated according to the National Cancer Institute Cancer Common Toxicity Criteria, version 4.0., Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 3 weeks.|Quality of life (QOL), QOL was assessed with the lung cancer subscale of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L) and Lung Cancer Symptom Scale(LCSS)., Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 3 weeks.
Molecular marker measurement for NSCLC, The measured molecular markers include carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), tissue polypeptide specific antigen (TPS), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), carbohydrate antigen 199 (CA199), cytokeratin fragment 19 ( CYFRA 21-1), and squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCC Ag), Some molecular markers in the serum will be tested at 6-month intervals after surgery until recurrence
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide. Only about 15.6% of all lung cancer patients are alive 5years or more after diagnosis. Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) accounts for more than 85% of all lung cancer cases.

For individuals with stage Ⅱ-ⅢA NSCLC after complete resection, platinum-based chemotherapy is the mainstay of first line treatment. Various treatment regimens have been developed to improve survival.

S-1 capsule is an novel oral anticancer drug that combines tegafur, a prodrug of 5-fluorouracil, with gimeracil and oteracil potassium. S-1 capsule was considered to be an active single agent against NSCLC.