Busulfan and Cyclophosphamide Followed By ALLO BMT
This is a treatment guideline to allow routine clinical data to be collected and maintained in Oncore (clinical database) and the University of Minnesota Blood and Marrow Database as part of the historical database maintained by the department.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Allopurinol|DRUG: Keppra|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Mycophenolate mofetil|BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant|BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim|BIOLOGICAL: antithymocyte globulin
Counts of Participants With Disease Free Survival, The length of time after treatment ends that a patient survives without any signs or symptoms of that cancer or any other type of cancer. In a clinical trial, measuring the disease-free survival is one way to see how well a new treatment works. Patients with leukemia involving the BM and myelodysplastic syndrome will have this assessed by BM biopsy and additional special studies such as cytogenetics or flow cytometry as appropriate. Patients will also have radiology studies such as plain X-rays or CT scans and/or other studies such as blood tumor markers to document presence or absence of disease as clinically indicated., 2 Years|Count of Participants With Disease Free Survival, The length of time after treatment ends that a patient survives without any signs or symptoms of that cancer or any other type of cancer. In a clinical trial, measuring the disease-free survival is one way to see how well a new treatment works. Patients with leukemia involving the BM and myelodysplastic syndrome will have this done by BM biopsy and additional special studies such as cytogenetics or flow cytometry as appropriate. Patients will also have radiology studies such as plain X-rays or CT scans and/or other studies such as blood tumor markers to document presence or absence of disease as clinically indicated., 5 Years|Count of Participants With Disease Free Survival, The length of time after treatment ends that a patient survives without any signs or symptoms of that cancer or any other type of cancer. In a clinical trial, measuring the disease-free survival is one way to see how well a new treatment works. Patients with leukemia involving the BM and myelodysplastic syndrome will have this done by BM biopsy and additional special studies such as cytogenetics or flow cytometry as appropriate. Patients will also have radiology studies such as plain X-rays or CT scans and/or other studies such as blood tumor markers to document presence or absence of disease as clinically indicated., 7 Years
Count of Participants Who Achieved Neutrophil Engraftment, Neutrophil engraftment is defined as the first day of three consecutive days where the neutrophil count (absolute neutrophil count) is 500 cells/mm\^3 (0.5 x 10\^9/L) or greater., By Day 42|Percentage of Participants With Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease by Grade, Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease is a severe short-term complication created by infusion of donor cells into a foreign host. Patients will be staged weekly between days 0 and 100 after transplantation using standard criteria used for staging. Patients will be assigned an overall GVHD score based on extent of skin rash, volume of diarrhea and maximum bilirubin level. The stages of individual organ involvement are combined to produce an overall grade. Grade I GVHD is characterized as mild disease, grade II GVHD as moderate, grade III as severe, and grade IV life-threatening., Day 100|Percentage of Participants With Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease, Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease is a severe long-term complication created by infusion of donor cells into a foreign host. Patients will be assigned an overall GVHD score based on extent of skin rash, volume of diarrhea and maximum bilirubin level. The stages of individual organ involvement are combined to produce an overall grade. Grade I GVHD is characterized as mild disease, grade II GVHD as moderate, grade III as severe, and grade IV life-threatening., 6 Months|Percentage of Participants With Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease, Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease is a severe long-term complication created by infusion of donor cells into a foreign host. Patients will be staged weekly between days 0 and 100 after transplantation using standard criteria used for staging. Patients will be assigned an overall GVHD score based on extent of skin rash, volume of diarrhea and maximum bilirubin level. The stages of individual organ involvement are combined to produce an overall grade. Grade I GVHD is characterized as mild disease, grade II GVHD as moderate, grade III as severe, and grade IV life-threatening., 1 Year|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-Related Toxicity, In the field of transplantation, toxicity is high and all deaths without previous relapse or progression are usually considered as related to transplantation., 6 Months|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-Related Toxicity, In the field of transplantation, toxicity is high and all deaths without previous relapse or progression are usually considered as related to transplantation., 1 year|Percentage of Participants With Relapse, The return of disease after its apparent recovery/cessation. Patients with leukemia involving the BM and myelodysplastic syndrome will have this assessed by BM biopsy and additional special studies such as cytogenetics or flow cytometry as appropriate. Patients will also have radiology studies such as plain X-rays or CT scans and/or other studies such as blood tumor markers to document presence or absence of disease as clinically indicated., 1 Year|Percentage of Participants With Relapse, The return of disease after its apparent recovery/cessation. Patients with leukemia involving the BM and myelodysplastic syndrome will have this assessed by BM biopsy and additional special studies such as cytogenetics or flow cytometry as appropriate. Patients will also have radiology studies such as plain X-rays or CT scans and/or other studies such as blood tumor markers to document presence or absence of disease as clinically indicated., 2 Years|Percentage of Participants With Engraftment Failure, Graft failure is defined as not accepting donated cells. The donated cells do not make the new white blood cells, red blood cells and platelets., Day 42|Number of Participant Who Were Alive at 2 Years Post Transplant, Overall survival will be defined as time from date of enrollment to date of death or censored at the date of last documented contact for patients still alive., 2 Years|Number of Participant Who Were Alive at 5 Years Post Transplant, Overall survival will be defined as time from date of enrollment to date of death or censored at the date of last documented contact for patients still alive., 5 Years|Number of Participant Who Were Alive at 7 Years Post Transplant, Overall survival will be defined as time from date of enrollment to date of death or censored at the date of last documented contact for patients still alive., 7 Years
This is a single arm trial to evaluate the efficacy of busulfan and cyclophosphamide followed by an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) in the treatment of hematological malignancies. The intent of this study is to provide a protocol that will use unmanipulated allogeneic hematopoietic stem cells from related and unrelated donors after a common preparative regimen.