Postoperative Pain Management on Patients Undergoing Lung Tumor Resection
Multimodal analgesia (MMA) is an essential part of Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) protocol. The principle of MMA is to manage pain with analgesics of multiple classes acting on distinct target sites through different strategies. MMA can reduce the adverse reaction caused by opioids and improve the quality of recovery from surgery. Inadequate postoperative pain management will increase the risk of complications, including pneumonia, deep vein thrombosis, infection, delayed surgical healing, and chronic postoperative pain.
Postoperative Pain|Lung Cancer|Lung Tumor
DRUG: Dinalbuphine sebacate|DRUG: Analgesic injectables|DRUG: Enteral analgesics
Postoperative pain intensity, Pain intensity is assessed by numerical rating scale (NRS) daily during hospital stay after delivery. NRS is a 11-point scale which labeled from zero (no pain) to ten (worst pain). The area under the curve of NRS are calculated., Within 3 days after surgery
Consumption of analgesics, The mean total consumption of analgesics during the hospital stay after delivery., Within 7 days after surgery|GAD-7, This self-administered patient questionnaire is used as a screening tool and severity measure for generalised anxiety disorder (GAD). Respondents are asked to rate each item for frequency of occurrence using a 4-point Likert scale (Not at all = 0, Several days = 1, More than half the days = 2, and Nearly every day = 3). All responses are summed to calculate the total GAD-7 score., At baseline, 7 days and 3 months after surgery|QoR-15, The quality of recovery-15 (QoR-15) is a patient-reported outcome measurement measuring QoR after surgery and anesthesia. The scale is arbitrary and ranges from 0 (extremely poor QoR) to 150 (excellent QoR)., At baseline, 7 days and 3 months after surgery
This prospective, observational study is planned to investigate the efficacy of different MMA regimens conducting in our hospital. Patients undergoing video-assisted thoracoscopic (VATS) lung tumor resection will be invited to participate in the study and grouped based on the MMA regimens. Anxiety, quality of recovery, pain intensity will be evaluated pre- and post-operatively. Demographic data, surgery record, medicine record and postoperative complications will be gained from medical history system and analyzed.