A Study Looking at Novel Scheduling of Cabazitaxel for Patients With Metastatic Prostate Cancer
Cabazitaxel has shown significant efficacy as second line chemotherapy after Docetaxel in men with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer. This was demonstrated in the Tropic Study where Cabazitaxel showed survival superiority compared to mitoxantrone. Almost one in 4 patients treated with Cabazitaxel in this study required dose reductions or dose delays or stopped treatment due to toxicity. ConCab examines another scheduling for cabazitaxel to see if we can improve tolerability so that patients will receive a higher percentage of the treatment as planned.
Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Cabazitaxel|DRUG: weekly cabazitaxel
Relative cumulative dose of cabazitaxel at week 18, The primary endpoint compares the cumulative dose of cabazitaxel that is received relative to the planned dose at 18 weeks of therapy. The cumulative dose of cabazitaxel in relation to the expected dose is a reflection of both tolerability and efficacy. Patients stopping treatment due to disease progression prior to week 18 will have lower relative cumulative doses as will patients with poor tolerability due to dose reductions and delays., week 18 after start of treatment
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the length of time from randomization to death from any cause, when the last enrolled patient has completed 18 weeks of therapy or has stopped therapy at an earlier date|Progression free survival, Progression free survival is defined as the length of time from randomisation to the first documentation of one of the following: PSA progression or pain progression or death due to any cause or radiological disease progression, when the last enrolled patient has completed 18 weeks of therapy or has stopped therapy at an earlier date|PSA Response, Only considered after 12 weeks of treatment. PSA response is defined as a 50% or greater decline in serum PSA from baseline given that baseline PSA is at least 10 ng/ml, when the last enrolled patient has completed 18 weeks of therapy or has stopped therapy at an earlier date
ConCab compares the standard treatment of cabazitaxel 25 mg/m2 every three weeks with an experimental scheduling of 10 mg/m2 for 5 consecutive weeks of a 6 week cycle. In both study arms the planned cumulative dose of cabazitaxel at week 18 is 150 mg/m2. Our study aims to evaluate differences in the total received dose in relation to the planned dose as a measure of which of the 2 treatment schedules is superior.