Improving Cancer Family Caregivers' Knowledge and Communication About Care Options
The purpose of this two-year mixed methods study is to develop and test an intervention to improve cancer family caregivers' knowledge of care options (curative, palliative, and hospice care) and goals of care communication as part of a self-management (SM) training program.

The two specific aims of this project are to:

1. Develop a psycho-educational intervention called Managing Cancer Care: A Caregiver's Guide (MCC-CG), for family caregivers of patients with breast cancer to increase knowledge of care options, goals of care communication, and other SM skills.
2. Evaluate the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of the MCC-CG in a pilot randomized controlled trial compared with an attention-control condition (symptom management education) on knowledge of care options, goals of care communication, and other key SM skills (engagement in SM, management of transitions and uncertainty, increasing self-efficacy, appropriate use of health care resources).
Family Caregivers
OTHER: Managing Cancer Care: A Caregiver's Guide|OTHER: Symptom Management Toolkit
Knowledge of Care Options (KOCO), 11-item questionnaire in true/false format to assess knowledge of curative, palliative, and hospice care., 3 months|Medical Communication Competence Scale (MCCS), Adjusted to reflect views of the family caregiver, the MCCS will assess participants' communication skills, including information seeking, providing, and verifying, and socio-emotional communication will be measured using the MCCS. Each item on the MCCS is presented with a Likert scale ranging from 7 (strongly agree) to 1 (strongly disagree)., 3 months|Engagement in Cancer Self-Management Activities Scale (ECSMAS), The 33-item ECSMAS was developed to measure cancer patients' self-reported self-management. The ECSMAS is organized around three conceptual domains derived from a metasynthesis of process of self-management in chronic illness: focus on illness needs, activating resources, and living with chronic illness. Items are adjusted to reflect views of the family caregiver, and an additional item has been added to the ECSMAS to assess caregivers' ability to manage transitions as a self-management skill (34 items total)., 3 months
Goals of Care Conversation, This form documents frequency, perceived quality, and content of goals of care conversations with patients and providers, as well as capturing any transitions experienced., 3 months|Caregiver Burden Scale (CBS), This 22-item scale was developed to assess the experience of burden among caregivers, specifically addressing the dimensions of personal strain and role strain. Each item is presented with five response options ranging from 0-4 indicating "never", "rarely", "sometimes", "frequently", and "nearly always" sequentially., 3 months|Mishel Uncertainty in Illness Scale (MUIS), Uncertainty will be measured using the 32-item MUIS, which was developed to measure the uncertainty adults perceive regarding symptoms, diagnosis, relationships, and planning for the future. Each item on the MUIS represents uncertainty in terms of a 5-point Likert-type format ranging from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree). All items adjusted to reflect views of the caregiver., 3 months|Caregiver Competence Scale, Self-efficacy will be measured using a 4-point Likert scale, with four questions total., 3 months|Personal Gain Scale, Self-efficacy will be measured using a 4-point Likert scale, with four questions total., 3 months
Demographic/Clinical form, Includes demographic data for caregivers and clinical data for the patient whom they provide care for., Baseline|Health Care Utilization, Data is abstracted from participants' medical records, including use of the emergency room, unscheduled hospital admissions, admission to ICU, use of chemotherapy and radiation in the last two weeks of life, and referral to hospice, among other indicators of disease burden as specified by the Center to Advance Palliative Care., 3 months after 3-month data collection time point
The investigators will address and accomplish aim 1 by taking the following steps:

1. Conduct development focus groups with family caregivers of women with breast cancer.
2. Develop the MCC-CG intervention prototype.
3. Conduct feedback focus groups with family caregivers to evaluate the prototype.
4. Revise the MCC-CG.

To address and accomplish aim 2, the investigators will do the following:

1. Conduct a pilot RCT to evaluate the feasibility of recruiting and retaining a sample of family caregivers.
2. Assess the initial efficacy of the MCC-CG to improve knowledge of care options, goals of care communication, and other SM skills.
3. Estimate power and determine the best measures for a large RCT testing the MCC-PT and MCC-CG together.