Intervention to Improve Caregiver Palliative Care Knowledge and Attitudes
This randomized clinical trial will assess whether a psychoeducational intervention will improve palliative care knowledge and attitudes among close friends and family members of individuals with cancer. The psychoeducational intervention entails viewing a video introducing palliative care and its purpose, structure, benefits, and efficacy.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Psychoeducational Video on Palliative Care|BEHAVIORAL: Educational Video on Nutrition
Palliative Care Knowledge Scale (PaCKS), Participants in both groups will complete the 13-item Palliative Care Knowledge Scale (PaCKS). The scale presents a series of items about palliative care, and response options reflect whether participants believe the items are true or false, or whether the participant does not know the answer. Each correct answer will be scored as 1, each incorrect or unsure answer will be scored as 0, and correct responses will be summed to create a total score. The total score will range from 0-13, with higher scores indicating greater palliative care knowledge., Immediately post-intervention|Palliative Care Attitudes Scale - Caregiver (PCAS-9C), Participants in both groups will report attitudes toward palliative care by completing the 9-item Palliative Care Attitudes Scale for Caregivers (PCAS-9C). The PCAS-9C consists of three subscales with three items each: emotional (reverse-coded), cognitive, and behavioral. Participants rate each item from 1 to 5. Total scores will range from 9 to 45, with higher scores indicating more favorable attitudes towards palliative care., Immediately post-intervention
The primary aims of this randomized clinical trial are to examine the impact of a psychoeducational intervention on (1) palliative care knowledge, and (2) palliative care attitudes among close friends and family members of individuals with cancer. Participants will complete a baseline survey including measures of palliative care knowledge and experience. Participants will be randomized to then view either a psychoeducational video introducing palliative care (intervention) or an educational video on nutrition throughout cancer survivorship (attention control). All participants will then complete outcome measures, including primary outcomes of palliative care knowledge and attitudes.