Ibrutinib Plus Rituximab and Lenalidomide in Treating Elderly Participants With Newly Diagnosed Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well ibrutinib plus rituximab and lenalidomide work in treating elderly participants with newly diagnosed mantle cell lymphoma. Ibrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ibrutinib plus rituximab and lenalidomide may work better in treating elderly participants with newly diagnosed mantle cell lymphoma.
CCND1 Positive|CD20-Positive Neoplastic Cells Present|Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Overall response rate (ORR) per International Workshop Standardization Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, The overall response (complete response + partial response) at four months and toxicity at one month (during course 1) will be monitored simultaneously using the Bayesian approach of Thall, Simon, Estey as extended by Thall and Sung. Independence was assumed between or and toxicity, where toxicity is defined as dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) within cycle 1., At 4 months (each cycle is 28 days)
Incidence of adverse events per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.03, Toxicity data by type and severity will be summarized by frequency tables. For the efficacy endpoints, intend-to-treat analysis will be performed. For the toxicity endpoint, per-treated analysis will be performed to include any patient who received the treatment regardless of the eligibility nor the duration or dose of the treatment received., At 1 month (cycle 1 is 28 days)|Overall survival (OS), Summary statistics will be provided for continuous variables. Frequency tables will be used to summarize categorical variables. The distribution of time-to-event endpoints including overall survival and progression free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazard regression will be employed for multivariate analysis on time-to-event outcomes., Up to 4 years|Progression-free survival, Summary statistics will be provided for continuous variables. Frequency tables will be used to summarize categorical variables. The distribution of time-to-event endpoints including overall survival and progression free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test. Cox proportional hazard regression will be employed for multivariate analysis on time-to-event outcomes., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) at 4 months of ibrutinib plus rituximab and lenalidomide in elderly patients with newly-diagnosed, untreated mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity profile of the combination of ibrutinib plus rituximab and lenalidomide in newly diagnosed, untreated MCL.

II. To estimate the overall response rate (ORR); (partial response \[PR\] or better), the response duration (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP) and overall survival (OS). Clinical benefit response \[(CBR) = marginal response (MR) + ORR\] will also be evaluated.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Correlative studies will be aimed at confirming the mechanism of action of the combination and to identify predictors of response or resistance to therapy.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive ibrutinib orally (PO) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants also receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 in course 1 and 2, on day 1 of course 3-8, and then on day 1 of every other 28-day course, lenalidomide PO on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO weekly. Treatment with rituximab repeats every 28 days for 2 years, with lenalidomide for 1 year, and with dexamethasone for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for 1 year, and every 6 months thereafter.