Study for the Treatment of Transfusional Iron Overload in Myelodysplastic Patients
Thirty patients were to be enrolled and 24 patients were actually enrolled into this open-label, single-arm trial designed to assess the safety and tolerability of oral deferasirox in adult transfusion dependent myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients with iron overload. Patients enrolled in this study had low or intermediate (INT-1) risk MDS per International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) criteria. All patients initiated treatment with 20mg/kg/day deferasirox.

Deferasirox were administered orally once per day for 12 months.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Iron Overload
DRUG: Deferasirox
Number of Participants With Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence (e.g. any unfavorable and unintended sign \[including abnormal laboratory findings\], symptom or disease) in a subject or clinical investigation subject after providing written informed consent for participation in the study. Any sign or symptom that occured from first dose of study treatment until end of study treatment., Up To Week 52
Absolute Change in Serum Ferritin From Baseline to Week 52, Absolute change in serum ferritin after start of treatment with Deferasirox (ICL670)., Baseline to Week 52|Absolute Change in Liver Iron Concentration (LIC) From Baseline to End of Study, LIC was assessed using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) mean liver proton transverse relaxation rates (R2)., Baseline to Week 52|To Evaluate Change in Transfusion Requirements, Change in transfusion requirements from baseline., Baseline to Week 52|Absolute Change in Serum Erythropoietin, Absolute Change in Serum Erythropoietin from baseline., Baseline to Week 52|Absolute Change in Urinary Hepcidin, Absolute Change in Urinary Hepcidin from baseline, Baseline to Week 52|Absolute Change in Transferrin Saturation, Transferrin Saturation was assessed using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) mean liver proton transverse relaxation rates (R2), Baseline to Week 52|Labile Plasma Iron (LPI), LPI represents the component of non-transferrin bound iron and is an indicator of iron overload. The outcome was reported as LPI Unit, where, 1 LPI unit = the quantity of reactive oxygen species produced by approximately 1.5 μM Fe., Baseline to Week 52
Patients were screened for eligibility to determine if they meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria. The screening period were up to 4 weeks. Patient's baseline LIC will be determined non-invasively by means of MRI R2 analysis. In addition, blood and urine samples will be taken for the determination of baseline safety data.