Hypofractionation for Prostate Cancer in Africa: A Feasibility Study
Hypofractionated radiotherapy (HFRT) is a technique that delivers a higher radiation dose per treatment fraction over a shorter overall number of fractions, thus reducing the number of radiotherapy visits required to complete a course of radiation therapy. HFRT significantly alleviates the burden of transportation, accommodation, and income loss for patients while mitigating the strain on already limited healthcare personnel and infrastructure resources.

Several randomized studies conducted in Europe and the USA have demonstrated that HFRT for prostate cancer is non-inferior to conventional radiotherapy in terms of toxicity and treatment outcomes. HypoAfrica Prostate Cancer is a multi-center study that aims to explore the feasibility of implementing moderate HFRT for the treatment of localized prostate cancer in Africa. In particular, this study will evaluate the gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicities in prostate cancer patients for up to two years post-completion of HFRT.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Hypofractionated radiotherapy for low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer patients|RADIATION: Hypofractionated radiotherapy for high-risk prostate cancer patients
Grade ≥2 acute gastro-intestinal and genitourinary toxicity at the end of radiotherapy, Toxicity measured using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Radiation Therapy Oncology Group modified toxicity scores (EORTC-RTOG) and the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5, 27-30 days from start of radiotherapy|Cumulative grade ≥2 late gastro-intestinal and genitourinary toxicity 3-24 months after radiotherapy, Toxicity measured using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Radiation Therapy Oncology Group modified toxicity scores (EORTC-RTOG) and the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5, 3-24 months post radiotherapy
Any grade gastro-intestinal and genitourinary toxicity at 3-12-24 months, Toxicity measured using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Radiation Therapy Oncology Group modified toxicity scores (EORTC-RTOG) and the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5, 3, 12, and 24 months post radiotherapy|PSA failure-free survival at 5 years, 5 years post-radiotherapy
Overall survival at 5 years, 5 years post-radiotherapy|Number of patients lost-to-follow-up, 5 years post-radiotherapy
Rationale: Radiotherapy is a critical and inseparable component of cancer treatment but access to radiotherapy is significantly inadequate in low-and middle-income countries. Adopting hypofractionated regimens as standard of care for prostate cancer offers logistical advantages by reducing the burden on the already strained radiotherapy resources in most African countries and increasing patient convenience. Several large randomized, phase 3 trials from high-income Western countries offer level I evidence to implement moderate hypofractionation for prostate cancer, providing control and toxicity similar to that of conventionally delivered fractionation. The present study will explore the feasibility of applying moderate hypofractionated radiotherapy for prostate cancer in a low- or middle- income country setting in sub-Saharan Africa.

Objective: To explore the feasibility of applying moderate hypofractionation for localized prostate cancer in an African setting.

Study design: This is a multi-centre, prospective, observational study to be conducted at 3 sites across Africa. Subject enrollment is anticipated to be completed in approximately 12 months. Subjects will be followed for up to 5 years from enrollment.

Study population: Patients with localized non-metastatic prostate cancer.

Intervention: Hypofractionated radiation therapy. Patients will be treated with 20 daily fractions, 5 times/week. Toxicity will be measured using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer-Radiation Therapy Oncology Group modified toxicity scores (EORTC-RTOG) and the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.