A Study of the Use of the Medtronic Pump and Codman Catheter to Give Chemotherapy to Patients With Colorectal Carcinoma or Cholangiocarcinoma
This study is being done to answer the following question:

Is the combination of the Medtronic pump and the Codman catheter device a safe alternative to the C3000 Codman pump for delivering chemotherapy directly into the liver of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer or cholangiocarcinoma?
Colorectal Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma
DEVICE: Medtronic pump and Codman catheter|DRUG: Floxuridine (FUDR)|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Irinotecan (CPT-11)|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Anti-EGFR (Panitumumab or Cetuximab)
number of patients requiring stent replacements, 1 year|% frequency liver toxicity, alkaline phosphatase, serum bilirubin, 1 year
Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from treatment initiation till the day of death or last follow-up whichever occurs first., 1 year|progression free survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time from treatment initiation till the day of progression or death whichever occurs first. Patients that are alive without progression at the end of the study will be censored., 1 year
Group 1 unresectable liver metastases from colorectal cancer

- Patients will receive either FOLFIRI, FOLFOX, Irinotecan or Irinotecan/oxaliplatin (anti- EGFR agent may be added to any of the systemic treatments) on Days 1 and 15 of each cycle, however initiation with systemic chemotherapy will not take place until 4 weeks post-surgery for pump placement, so the first doses of systemic chemotherapy will be given on Cycle 1, Day 15, and then every 2 weeks thereafter. CT C/A/P every 2 months. A window of +/- 3 weeks for scans is allowed in order to accommodate patient schedules.

Group 2 resectable liver metastases from colorectal cancer

- Patients will receive either FOLFIRI, FOLFOX, Irinotecan or Irinotecan/oxaliplatin on Days 1 and 15 of each cycle, however initiation with systemic chemotherapy will not take place until 4 weeks post-surgery for pump placement, so the first doses of systemic chemotherapy will be given on Cycle 1, Day 15, and then every 2 weeks thereafter. Treatment will continue for 6 months in the absence of toxicity or patient withdrawal. CT C/A/P every 3 months. A window of +/- 3 weeks for scans is allowed in order to accommodate patient schedules.

Group 3 unresectable cholangiocarcinoma

- Patients will receive Gemcitabine (800 mg/m2 IV over 30 minutes) and Oxaliplatin (85 mg/ m2 IV over 120 minutes) or Gemcitabine (1000 mg/m2 IV over 30 minutes) alone on Days 1 and 15 of each cycle, however initiation with systemic chemotherapy will not take place until 4 weeks post-surgery for pump placement, so the first doses of systemic chemotherapy will be given on Cycle 1, Day 15, and then every 2 weeks thereafter. A CT C/A/P every 2 months during treatment. A window of +/- 3 weeks for scans is allowed in order to accommodate patient schedules.