Treatment of High-Risk Prostate Cancer Guided by Novel Diagnostic Radio- and Molecular Tracers
This Investigator-initiated, Treatment of High-Risk Prostate Cancer Guided by Novel Diagnostic Radio- and Molecular Tracers (THUNDER) study will be conducted in subjects with high-risk localized or locally advanced prostate cancer (PCa). The study contains both a randomized Phase 3 treatment intensification study, as well as a treatment de-intensification non-randomized Phase 2 study. The aim of the THUNDER study is to improve the outcome of high-risk PCa by improved risk stratification. Novel radiotracers and a genomic classifier (Decipher) will be used to guide treatment decisions, instead of standard imaging which is limited by lower sensitivity and specificity.

The hypothesis for the study is that treatment intensification based on a positive PSMA PET/ CT scan or Decipher high score (\> 0.6) improves time to new metastases detected on PSMA PET/ CT in high-risk PCa. In patients who are PSMA PET/ CT negative with a low/ intermediate Decipher score (≤ 0.6), it is hypothesized that treatment de-intensification will improve patient quality of life while maintaining a good oncological outcome.

The study will be conducted at multiple centers across Europe. Participation in the study will comprise a screening period, where the screening assessments must be completed before subjects are enrolled and randomized (only for Phase 3 subjects). Eligible, consenting subjects will then undergo treatment according to their assigned study phase and treatment group, to occur over up to 96 weeks (24 months) with a post-treatment follow-up period to monitor safety and efficacy. The study will be closed when 96 events have been registered for the primary endpoint, which is expected to be at 7-8 years from the time of randomization of the first subject.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Darolutamide|DRUG: Darolutamide matched placebo|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Zoladex 3.6Mg Implant|DRUG: Zoladex LA|DRUG: Decapeptyl sustained release 22.5 mg|DRUG: Decapeptyl sustained release 11.25 mg|DRUG: Depo-Eligard 45 mg|DRUG: Depo-Eligard 22.5 mg|DRUG: Depo-Eligard 7.5 mg|DRUG: Firmagon 120 MG Injection|DRUG: Firmagon 80 MG Injection|DRUG: Docetaxel
Phase 3: PSMA PET metastasis free survival (ppMFS), Improvement in PSMA PET metastasis free survival (ppMFS), Time from randomization to the date of at least 1 new PSMA-PET positive distant lesion as compared to baseline or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 42 months|Phase 2: quality of life (sexual subdomain), EPIC mean changes in sexual subdomain scores over time will be compared, both for change from baseline and absolute scores, At 12 months|Phase 2: quality of life (hormonal subdomain), EPIC mean changes in hormonal subdomain scores over time will be compared, both for change from baseline and absolute scores, At 12 months
Overall survival, Overall survival, Time interval between randomization and time of death, assessed up to 42 months|Prostate-cancer specific survival, Prostate-cancer specific survival, Time interval between randomization and prostate cancer death, assessed up to 42 months|Biochemical progression-free survival, Increase in PSA of \>2 ng/ml above the nadir PSA level, Measured from the date of randomization to the date event, or death or censored at the last known follow-up date, assessed up to 42 months|Time to next systemic therapy, Time to next systemic therapy, Measured from date of randomization to time of death, or censored at the last known follow-up date, assessed up to 42 months|Frequency and severity of adverse events, Frequency and severity of adverse events, From signing ICF until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment.
Approximately 360 evaluable patients determined to have high-risk localized or locally advanced PCa, with PSMA positive non-localized disease or a Decipher high score (\> 0.6) will be enrolled to the Phase 3 trial. Subjects with PSMA positive non-localized disease for which a Decipher result cannot be obtained, will also be enrolled to the Phase 3 study.

All Phase 3 subjects will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive darolutamide plus Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (ant)-agonists (LHRHA), or darolutamide matched placebo plus LHRHA, for up to 96 weeks (24 months). All Phase 3 subjects will also receive primary standard of care (SOC) radiation therapy (RT). Subjects in Phase 3 should be commenced on an LHRHA and darolutamide or placebo within 14 days after randomization (unless started earlier) plus SOC RT. Only patients with a PSMA PET-CT showing more than 5 M1 lesions are allowed to receive docetaxel in both arms of the Phase 3 trial. Docetaxel should be started within 4 weeks from randomization. Randomization of Phase 3 subjects will be stratified by 1 versus \> 1 high-risk features, N1 versus M1 PSMA positive versus PSMA negative disease, Decipher low/ intermediate versus high versus unknown score and clinical trial site.

Approximately 133 evaluable patients determined to have localized PCa by PSMA PET/ CT (PSMA negative) with a low/ intermediate Decipher test score (≤ 0.6) will enter the non-randomized, Phase 2, single treatment arm, de-intensification study. Subjects with localized PCa by PSMA PET/ CT who return a high Decipher score (\> 0.6) will be enrolled and randomized into the Phase 3 study. Subjects with localized PCa by PSMA PET/ CT for which a Decipher result cannot be obtained, will be deemed ineligible for study participation.

All Phase 2 study subjects will receive darolutamide for the study duration for up to 96 weeks (24 months) and primary SOC RT.