Prone Breath Hold Technique to Decrease Cardiac and Pulmonary Doses in Women Receiving Left Breast Radiotherapy
This is a pilot study to determine whether the addition of inspiratory hold (breath holding) can decrease the radiation dose that the heart and lung receive for patients being treated for left sided breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Verify radiation dose to heart and lung
The Radiation Dose in Gy to the Heart and Lung Using Two Radiation Techniques., The primary endpoints of this study were to evaluate the feasibility of the combination of prone positioning and RPM pDIPH for breast cancer radiation treatment. Each woman enrolled in the study had 2 radiation plans generated: one for the pFB scan and one for the pDIBH scan. The mean difference between the dosimetrically determined heart, left anterior descending (LAD) artery, and left lung radiation doses were computed with the associated 95% confidence interval; however, the Wilcoxin paired signed rank test was used and listed below as the primary analysis because of the non-normal distributions., Treatment Day 1 (both pFB and pDIBH scans were done on the same day)
Determination of Cardiac Dose and Lung Dose Reduction in Women Receiving Prone Breast Radiotherapy When Inspiratory Gating is Added., This outcome was measured by looking at the maximum dose to the heart and maximum dose to the left lung in patients using the free breathing method versus the breath holding method in the prone position. The mean of the maximum doses for each patient was taken and compared using the Wilcoxin Paired Signed Rank Test., Treatment Day 1|Heart Mean Dose Based on Breast Volume, The breast volume was evaluated using the dose-volume histogram. A paired t-test was used to assess if breast volume and the mean difference for heart was statistically significant. Because paired data were generated the number of women required was less than if 2 independent samples of women were to be used., Treatment Day 1|Determination of Left Anterior Artery (LAD) Dose Reduction in Women Receiving Prone Breast Radiotherapy When Inspiratory Gating is Added., This outcome was measured by looking at the maximum dose to the LAD in patients using the free breathing method versus the breath holding method in the prone position. The mean of the maximum doses for each patient was taken and compared using the Wilcoxin Paired Signed Rank Test., Treatment Day 1
Subjects have a standard of care CT simulation, which includes an additional breath hold CT. Inspiratory gated breath-hold will be used. Two radiation plans will be generated: one for the CT scan performed free breathing, and one for the CT scan performed with inspiratory gated breath hold. The cardiac and lung doses will be determined. At the discretion of the treating physician, the plan with the lower cardiac and lung dose may be used to treat the patient.