Novel Exoscope System for 5-ALA Fluorescence-Guided Surgery for Gliomas
5-ALA and the Orbeye surgical microscope are U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved products. For this study, the Orbeye microscope imaging system is being used with special filters to visualize 5-ALA fluorescence. The FDA currently permits the use of these filters. The purpose of this study is to collect medical information before, during, and after standard treatment in order to better understand how to make this type of procedure accessible to patients.

This study is also being conducted to determine if use of the Orbeye equipped with these special filters improves the ability of the surgeon to remove brain tumors.
Brain Tumor|Glioma
DEVICE: Orbeye surgical videomicroscope|DRUG: 5-Aminolevulinic Acid
Compare Visualized Fluroescence within brain tumors, 6 tissue samples will be obtained intraoperatively for each patient and assessed for 5-ALA visualization (strongly positive.weakly positive/negative). Tissue samples will be submitted for pathological assessment to determine whether tumor cells are present or absent. Visualization results will be evaluated against the pathology results (gold standard) to determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative predictive value for 5-ALA visualizations with use of the ORBEYE system., Surgery day one
Volume of Residual tumor, Residual tumor volume will be identified in post surgical MRI scans. Extent of resection will be compared to preoperative MRI scans., up to 48 hours after surgery|Number of Patients experiencing Adverse Events, Patients will be assessed for neurological and general side effects/toxicities 7-16 days after surgery., Up to 16 days after surgery
Post Surgery Questionnaire, Surgeons will complete a questionnaire after each surgery to assess the visual experience of using the ORBEYE during the surgical procedure. The questionnaire asks about the superiority of the ORBEYE system compared to conventional binocular microscope, using a scale of 1-5, 1 being strongly agree and 5 being strongly disagree., Surgery day one
5-ALA and the Orbeye surgical microscope are U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved products. For this study, the Orbeye microscope imaging system is being used with special filters to visualize 5-ALA fluorescence. The FDA currently permits the use of these filters. The purpose of this study is to collect medical information before, during, and after standard treatment in order to better understand how to make this type of procedure accessible to patients.

This study is also being conducted to determine if use of the Orbeye equipped with these special filters improves the ability of the surgeon to remove brain tumors.