Radiotherapy in Hepatocellular Carcinomas After Hepatectomy With Narrow Margin (<1 cm) or Portal Vein Thrombosis
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of ten leading cancer types worldwide and also in Asia, but the five-year relative survival rate is relatively quite low1-3. As a common complication of HCC, portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) have been reported with an occurrence of 34% \~ 50% in advanced HCC and it is now become an extremely pressing problem for hepatic surgeon. Nevertheless, the patients overall survival (OS) varies on their clinical features or liver function4. For HCC PVTT treatment, current options are surgical resection, embolization chemotherapy, radiation therapy, a variety of ablation therapy, biological and gene therapy,etc. Among them, the use of radiation therapy is getting more and more attention, and it is changing from the past palliative treatment to current curable treatment. From an oncologic point of view, a narrow margin \<1 cm is not safe and is often associated with higher rates of recurrence and shorter patient survival.On the other hand, it is also believed that most intrahepatic recurrences arise from multicentric carcinogenesis and are distant from the resection margin.To address this issue, the investigators are going to conduct a series of retrospective and prospective studies to investigate the effect of adjuvant RT for centrally located HCC after narrow margin (\<1 cm) hepatectomy on tumor recurrence.
HepatoCellular Carcinoma
overall survival, 1year
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of ten leading cancer types worldwide and also in Asia, but the five-year relative survival rate is relatively quite low1-3. As a common complication of HCC, portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) have been reported with an occurrence of 34% \~ 50% in advanced HCC and it is now become an extremely pressing problem for hepatic surgeon. Nevertheless, the patients overall survival (OS) varies on their clinical features or liver function4. For HCC PVTT treatment, current options are surgical resection, embolization chemotherapy, radiation therapy, a variety of ablation therapy, biological and gene therapy,etc. Among them, the use of radiation therapy is getting more and more attention, and it is changing from the past palliative treatment to current curable treatment. From an oncologic point of view, a narrow margin \<1 cm is not safe and is often associated with higher rates of recurrence and shorter patient survival.On the other hand, it is also believed that most intrahepatic recurrences arise from multicentric carcinogenesis and are distant from the resection margin.To address this issue, the investigators are going to conduct a series of retrospective and prospective studies to investigate the effect of adjuvant RT for centrally located HCC after narrow margin (\<1 cm) hepatectomy on tumor recurrence.