The Efficacy and Safety of K-001 in the Treatment of Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
No Standard therapy has been approved for third-line therapy of advanced pancreatic cancer. K001 is peptidoglycan prepared from the marine microorganism, with an anti-tumor activity. Previously, the phase I study of K001 has shown that K001 was safety and had some effectiveness for pancreatic patients. Now, we would like to lunch a randomized, blinded, parallel-controlled, multi-center phase II/III study to compare the best support care (BSC) plus K-001 versus BSC plus placebo for the third-line and later treatment of patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: K-001|OTHER: placebo
overall survival, The overall survival (OS) of the two groups of FAS was compared. FAS including all the subjects who take at least one dose of the research drug. All the subjects received tumor assessment every 8weeks according to RECIST1.1., 6 months after the last subject is enrolled
PFS, All the subjects received tumor assessment every 8weeks according to RECIST1.1 to evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) ., 6 months after the last subject is enrolled|TTP, All the subjects received tumor assessment every 8weeks according to RECIST1.1 to evaluate the time to progression (TTP)., 6 months after the last subject is enrolled|ORR, All the subjects received tumor assessment every 8weeks according to RECIST1.1 to evaluate the objective response rate (ORR)., 6 months after the last subject is enrolled|DCR, All the subjects received tumor assessment every 8weeks according to RECIST1.1 to evaluate the disease control rate (DCR)., 6 months after the last subject is enrolled|CBR, According to a questionaire to evaluate the clinical benefit response (CBR) of the two groups., 6 months after the last subject is enrolled|QOL, According to a questionaire to evaluate the quality of life (QOL) of the two groups., 6 months after the last subject is enrolled
Tumor marker, blood test to evaluate change of tumor markers, including CEA, CA19-9, CA125, CA724, AFP and etc. of the two groups, 6 months after the last subject is enrolled|Hematology Index, blood test to evaluate change of D-Dimer, C-Reactive protein (CRP), Albumin (ALB), CAR (CRP/ALB) of the two groups, 6 months after the last subject is enrolled
No Standard therapy has been approved for third-line therapy of advanced pancreatic cancer. K001 is peptidoglycan prepared from the marine microorganism, with an anti-tumor activity. Previously, the phase I study of K001 has shown that K001 was safety and had some effectiveness for pancreatic patients. Now, we would like to lunch a randomized, blinded, parallel-controlled, multi-center phase II/III study to compare the best support care (BSC) plus K-001 versus BSC plus placebo for the third-line and later treatment of patients with advanced pancreatic cancer.