GNB4 and Riplet Gene Methylation Combined Detection Kit (Fluorescence PCR Method)
The goal of this observational study is to test the clinical efficacy of "GNB4 and Riplet gene methylation combined detection kit (fluorescence PCR method)"in hepatocellular carcinoma auxiliary diagnosis. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. How consistent are the test results of the kit with the clinical reference diagnostic criteria?
2. Sanger sequencing can visually show whether each sample contains methylation sites, so in this clinical trial, the kit results were compared with Sanger sequencing results to analyze the reagent's accuracy in detecting GNB4 and Riplet gene methylation.

Each participant is required to provide no less than 10 ml of blood to complete the kit test.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: GNB4 and Riplet Gene Methylation Combined Detection Kit (Fluorescent PCR Method)
validity, In this study, validity indicates the consistency of methylation test with the clinical reference diagnostic standards, including sensitivity and specificity. Sensitivity indicates the proportion of methylation-positive samples in hepatocellular carcinoma samples. Specificity indicates the proportion of methylation-negative samples in nagative group., immediately after the procedure
reliability, In this study, the reliability evaluation included two indicators, namely the agreement rate of methylation detection with Sanger sequencing, and the Kappa value of the two methods., immediately after the procedure
1. Before the start of clinical trials, investigators will be uniformly trained by experts from the clinical trial institutions or from the sponsor. Researchers should be familiar with and correctly operated the test kits and instruments.
2. Throughout the clinical trial process, the clinical trial institution should ensure that it follows the scheduled protocal and strictly abide by the instructions of instruments and reagents.
3. The entire trial process should be completed by the researchers in the laboratory of the clinical trial institution. Except for the necessary guidance, the technical staff of the sponsor shall not interfere with the experimental process at will, especially data collection process. Blind methods should be used to ensure the objectivity of the test results.
4. The sponsor shall ensure that the test reagents are qualified, and transported to the clinical institution in accordance with the transportation conditions in the manual. Researchers should record the information of receipt, storage, use, handling and recycling process.
5. Researchers should ensure that the clinical trial data are recorded accurately, completely, clearly and in a timely manner. Any changes to the data should be signed and dated by the researcher, and the original records should be kept. The original records should be clear and recognizable. All observations and findings in clinical trials should be truthfully recorded and verified to ensure the reliability of the data and to ensure that the conclusions of clinical trials are derived from the original records.