Venetoclax and Decitabine in Treating Participants With Relapsed/Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Relapsed High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase II trial studies how well venetoclax and decitabine work in treating participants with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back or does not respond to treatment, or with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome that has come back. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as venetoclax and decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm|Recurrent Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm|Refractory Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Refractory Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia
DRUG: Decitabine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Venetoclax
Overall response rate (ORR), Will be defined as the proportion of patients who had CR (complete remission), CRp (complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery), CRi (complete remission with incomplete count recovery), PR (partial response) or marrow clearance of blasts within 3 months of treatment initiation among adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML); and complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR) or marrow CR (mCR) lasting at least 4 weeks for patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Descriptive statistics including plots, mean, median and standard deviations will be used to summarize data. Will estimate the ORR for the combination treatment, along with the 95% confidence interval. The association between ORR and patient's clinical characteristics will be examined by Wilcoxon's rank sum test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate., Up to 4 cycles (112 days)
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity type, severity and attribution will be summarized for each patient using frequency tables., Up to 5 years|Duration of response, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log rank tests., Up to 5 years|Disease free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log rank tests., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log rank tests., Up to 5 years
Biomarker analysis, Baseline protein, gene expression signatures/mutation profile and BH3 profiling will be summarized with descriptive statistics. The correlation with endpoints of anti tumor activity will be explored where possible., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of venetoclax in combination with 10-day decitabine in patients with refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML); elderly (\> 60 year old) patients with newly diagnosed AML not eligible for intensive chemotherapy; patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) with bone marrow blasts between 10% and 20%, relapsed or refractory to prior hypomethylating agent (HMA) therapy, or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) with bone marrow blasts \>= 10% regardless of prior therapy; AML patients with prior history of MDS or CMML who received therapy for the MDS or CMML and progressed to AML, and younger patients with newly diagnosed AML with poor risk complex karyotype and/or TP53 deletions/mutations and patients with blastic plasmacytoid dentritic cell neoplasm (BPDCN).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of response, disease-free survival (DFS), and overall survival (OS) of patients with refractory/relapsed AML treated with this combination.

II. To determine the number of patients who achieve a hematologic improvement (HI) in platelets, hemoglobin, or absolute neutrophil count (ANC) and the number of patients who achieve \> 50% reduction in blasts on therapy with venetoclax/10-day decitabine.

III. To determine the safety of venetoclax in combination with 10-day decitabine in patients with refractory/relapsed AML.

IV. To determine the number of patients who transition towards stem cell transplantation upon achieving response with the combination venetoclax/10-day decitabine regimen.

V. To determine the incidence of infectious complications per cycle with venetoclax in combination with 10-day decitabine.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate possible relationships between baseline protein and gene expression signatures/mutation profile and BH3 profiling in predicting clinical response to the combination.

II. To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of venetoclax in combination with decitabine and antifungals in plasma samples.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1-10 and may also receive decitabine on days 1-5 after achieving complete remission/complete remission with incomplete count recovery during consolidation/maintenance. Participants also receive venetoclax orally (PO) daily on days 1-28 of cycle 1 and on days 1-21 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeat every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 3 to 6 months for up to 5 years.