Study to Allow Access to Pasireotide for Patients Benefiting From Pasireotide Treatment in Novartis-sponsored Studies
The purpose of this study is to allow continued use of pasireotide in patients who are on pasireotide treatment in a Novartis-sponsored study and are benefiting from the treatment as judged by the investigator.
Cushing's Disease|Acromegaly|Neuroendocrine Tumors|Pituitary Tumors|Ectopic ACTH Secreting (EAS) Tumors|Dumping Syndrome|Prostate Cancer|Melanoma Negative for bRAF|Melanoma Negative for nRAS
DRUG: Pasireotide|DRUG: Cabergoline|DRUG: Pasireotide LAR
Incidence of Adverse Events to Evaluate Long Term Safety Data, Collect long term safety data, i.e. SAEs and AEs. SAES will be reviewed and reported as part of the regular pharmacovigilance activities., Baseline up to approximately 10 years
Percentage of Patients With Clinical Benefit as Assessed by the Investigator, Efficacy was assessed by the investigator at each scheduled visit using a binary (yes/no) response confirming the investigator's judgement of clinical benefit (via the question: "Does investigator confirm that the subject continues to have clinical benefit from the study treatment"). No other measures of efficacy were used in this study., Baseline up to approximately 10 years
This is a multi-center, open label, phase IV study to provide continued supply of pasireotide to patients being treated in a current Novartis-sponsored study and who are benefiting from treatment with pasireotide alone or in combination with another treatment for Cushing's Disease and Acromegaly . Eligible patients are to be consented and can then continue treatment with pasireotide alone or in combination with another treatment for Cushing's Disease and Acromegaly in this protocol. All patients at their scheduled visits will have drug dispensing information and reported adverse events and serious adverse events collected.

A patient will reach the end of study when pasireotide treatment is permanently discontinued and the end of treatment visit has been performed. All patients must be followed up for safety evaluations for 3 months following the last dose of pasireotide LAR treatment and for 1 month following the last dose of pasireotide s.c. treatment.

The study is expected to remain open for approximately 10 years or until such time that enrolled patients no longer need treatment with pasireotide or are able to obtain commercial supply according to local regulations for their medical condition.