Oral TGF-beta Receptor I Inhibitor Vactosertib in SOC Chemoradiotherapy for Esophageal Adenocarcinoma
This interventional clinical trial aims to find ways of improving treatments for individuals with esophageal cancer. Laboratory-based studies show that using medicines that affect a protein called TGF-beta (TGFβ) can kill esophageal cancer cells in individuals who have localized esophageal adenocarcinoma and are being considered for standard-of-care chemoradiation prior to surgery. Participants of this study will take a pill called vactosertib for two weeks before starting standard of care chemoradiation. At the end of the two weeks of taking vactosertib, participants will have a Positron Emission Tomography Computer Assisted Tomography (PET CT) scan and undergo an endoscopy with a biopsy to determine if the vactosertib is working. After chemoradiation, participants will take vactosertib again for four weeks and then be considered for surgery.
Adenocarcinoma Esophagus|Locally Advanced Adenocarcinoma|Siewert Type I Adenocarcinoma of Esophagogastric Junction|Siewert Type II Adenocarcinoma of Esophagogastric Junction
DRUG: Vactosertib|DRUG: Standard of Care Chemotherapy|RADIATION: Concurrent Radiation
Metabolic Response, Determine if two-week treatment with single agent vactosertib induces metabolic response by PET CT imaging in primary EAC tumors. This will be measured as the rate of tumors that have decreased FDG tracer uptake by \>= 35% SUV on PET CT after 2 week treatment with vactosertib., At two weeks post treatment
Pathological Response, Evaluate the pathological response at the time of surgery after the combination therapy of CRT followed by vactosertib in patients with locally advanced EAC. This will be defined by the rate of pathological complete response at the time of surgical resection., At approximately 14 weeks from starting treatment|Correlate baseline expression, Correlate baseline expression of HNF4A with clinical response to vactosertib. HNF4A expression will be measured by immunohistochemistry and positive or negative expression will be correlated with rate of pathological complete response and metabolic response., At approximately 14 weeks from starting treatment|Ability to take vactosertib before and after standard of care chemoradiation, Determine if oral vactosertib is feasible in treatment of locally advanced EAC prior to and after CRT. Feasibility will be measured as the rate of patients able to complete \>= 75% of planned doses of vactosertib., At approximately 14 weeks from starting treatment
Esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) is an aggressive malignancy with limited effective treatment options. In localized EAC (clinical stages II and III), the standard of care is pre-operative concurrent chemoradiation (CRT) followed by surgical resection, which results in pathologic complete response (pCR) in approximately 20% of participants, but with high rates of post-operative recurrence. It was recently discovered that EACs are driven by signaling through TGFβ Receptor I (TGFβRI), and in vivo models of EAC show tumor reduction by targeting this pathway with a novel small molecule inhibitor of TGFβRI called vactosertib. In this study, participants who have locally advanced EAC will be treated with vactosertib before and after standard of care chemoradiation to take advantage of natural windows of opportunity during which participants are being planned for their standard of care treatments.