Explore Intra-tumor Heterogeneity and Prognostic Value of Postoperative Blood ctDNA of ⅡA - ⅢA Stage Non-squamous NSCLC Based on the Capture-based Sequencing and UMI Technology of Burning Rock
The study will collect 100 ⅡA - ⅢA stage non-squamous NSCLC tumor tissue and blood specimens (Include: (1) tissue by operation: 3 specimens from different regions of each patient; (2) Blood: preoperative blood (within one week), postoperative blood (3-4 weeks after operation (before adjuvant chemotherapy), 20 weeks after operation (1 month after adjuvant chemotherapy), 1 year after operation). Capture-based sequencing(168 genes panel +UMI) will performed. All patients are recommended for "pemetrexed combined platinum" adjuvant chemotherapy for 4 cycles(Moderate-dose Chemotherapy) 3-4 weeks after operation. The clinical data should be collected until disease progression. The relationship of postoperative ctDNA and recurrence defined by clinical imaging will be analyzed, as well as the correlation of tissue and postoperative blood NGS results.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
recurrence or metastasis, The patient was diagnosed as recurrence or metastasis according to the computed tomography (CT) scan, two years after the last patient entered the study
The study will collect 100 ⅡA - ⅢA stage non-squamous NSCLC tumor tissue and blood specimens (Include: (1) tissue by operation: 3 specimens from different regions of each patient; (2) Blood: preoperative blood (within one week), postoperative blood (3-4 weeks after operation (before adjuvant chemotherapy), 20 weeks after operation (1 month after adjuvant chemotherapy), 1 year after operation). Capture-based sequencing(168 genes panel +UMI) will performed. All patients are recommended for "pemetrexed combined platinum" adjuvant chemotherapy for 4 cycles(Moderate-dose Chemotherapy) 3-4 weeks after operation. The clinical data should be collected until disease progression. The relationship of postoperative ctDNA and recurrence defined by clinical imaging will be analyzed, as well as the correlation of tissue and postoperative blood NGS results.