Noninvasive Detection and Assessment of Therapy Response in Multiple Myeloma Using Whole-Body MRI
This study is designed to prospectively determine the sensitivity, specificity, and diagnostic accuracy of whole-body MRI (WBMRI) with Dual-Echo T2-weighted acquisition for Enhanced Conspicuity of Tumors (DETECT) for the detection of multiple myeloma.

Subjects will undergo WBMRI and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) for research purposes either at one time point for cross-sectional study or at four time points for longitudinal study: baseline, prior to bone marrow transplant (BMT), prior to maintenance therapy, and post BMT. The results of these imaging procedures will be compared to standard of care whole body x-ray and bone marrow biopsy results.
Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: WBMRI|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT)
Detection of lesions, Effectiveness of WBMRI DETECT for the detection of lesions in MM patients will be compared to WBMRI Diffusion Weighted Imaging (DWI). A combination of clinical MRI, whole body x-ray, FDG PET, and bone marrow biopsy will be used as the reference standard.

The number of lesions identified on WBMRI-DETECT will be compared to the number of lesions identified on WBMRI-DWI. The sensitivity and specificity of WBMRI-DETECT and WBMRI-DWI will be calculated using the reference standard., Up to 4 years|Assessment of therapy response, Effectiveness of WBMRI for assessing therapy response will be compared to the current standard of care using FDG PET and bone marrow biopsy as the validation standard.

The percentage increase in fat fraction measured using WBMRI-DETECT and the percentage increase in apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) measured using WBMRI-DWI will be used to assess the effectiveness of WBMRI in measuring therapy response. The percentage change in SUVmax measured on PET/CT will be used as the reference standard., Up to 4 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Will determine if WBMRI prognosis is at baseline, after 4-6 weeks of induction therapy, and before maintenance therapy is associated with PFS., Up to 4 years|Overall Survival (OS), Will determine if WBMRI prognosis is at baseline, after 4-6 weeks of induction therapy, and before maintenance therapy is associated with OS., Up to 4 years
Whole body magnetic resonance imaging (WBMRI) will be evaluated for detection and assessment of therapy response in multiple myeloma (MM) using a novel acquisition scheme. WBMRI with diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) has demonstrated promising preliminary results for detection and response monitoring in MM. While DWI generates high lesion-to-background contrast and excellent lesion conspicuity, it suffers from compromised image quality due to geometric distortion, particularly at 3 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), a platform which is increasingly used in clinical practice. This disadvantage, along with high costs and patient dissatisfaction associated with long scan times, have limited wide spread adoption of WBMRI with DWI in the clinical practice.

To overcome these challenges, the investigators have developed an alternative WBMRI technique: Dual-Echo T2-weighted acquisition for Enhanced Conspicuity of Tumors (DETECT) for improved tumor visualization by simultaneously suppressing the confounding signals of fat and fluid throughout the body.