Nasal Fentanyl for Patient Controlled Treatment of Pain in Cancer
Traditionally cancer pain is treated with long acting opioids such as morphine around the clock. However, there is no evidence that all patients have a stable pain requiring around the clock medication. So far opioids for self-administration with a rapid onset of action have not been available. Recently a nasal formulation of fentanyl (an opioid similar to morphine) was released in Europe for treatment of breakthrough pain, i.e. an unpredictable pain with short duration that breaks through the otherwise stable pain controlled with the around the clock medication. The basic idea is that this formulation may open for patient controlled analgesia of chronic cancer pain, due to the ultra rapid onset of action of nasally delivered fentanyl. This means that the patient only takes medication when in pain. This single center feasibility / safety study is the first part of a study to investigate this alternative cancer pain treatment approach.
Chronic Pain|Cancer
DRUG: fentanyl
sedation/drowsiness, scores on a 0-10 numerical rating scale; 0=none / 10=intolerable, 10 days|nausea and vomiting, nausea scores on a 0-10 numerical rating scale; 0=none / 10=intolerable vomiting yes/no, 10 days
pain intensity, scores on a 0-10 numerical rating scale; 0=none / 10=intolerable, 10 days
Traditionally cancer pain is treated with long acting opioids such as morphine around the clock. However, there is no evidence that all patients have a stable pain requiring around the clock medication. So far opioids for self-administration with a rapid onset of action have not been available. Recently a nasal formulation of fentanyl (an opioid similar to morphine) was released in Europe for treatment of breakthrough pain, i.e. an unpredictable pain with short duration that breaks through the otherwise stable pain controlled with the around the clock medication. The basic idea is that this formulation may open for patient controlled analgesia of chronic cancer pain, due to the ultra rapid onset of action of nasally delivered fentanyl. This means that the patient only takes medication when in pain. This single center feasibility / safety study is the first part of a study to investigate this alternative cancer pain treatment approach.