Sorafenib Therapy Prior to Radiofrequency Ablation for Intermediate Sized Hepatocellular Cancer
The purpose of this research study is to determine if sorafenib improves the effectiveness of a procedure called radiofrequency ablation (RFA) for the treatment of hepatocellular cancer (HCC). Radiofrequency ablation has been used to treat many types of tumors, including hepatocellular cancers. During RFA a needle is inserted into the tumor tissue and heat is used to kill the tumor cells. Sorafenib has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of hepatocellular cancer that cannot be treated with surgery. Pre-clinical data suggests that sorafenib may improve the efficacy of RFA.
Hepatocellular Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib|PROCEDURE: radiofrequency ablation
Coagulation Zone Diameter-Short Axis, The size of the coagulation zone was determined on CT imaging obtained after RFA for the single index tumor., Up to day 50 from study enrollment (target 30 days after RFA)|Coagulation Zone Diameter-Long Axis, The size of the coagulation zone was determined on CT imaging obtained after RFA for the single index tumor., Up to day 50 from study enrollment (target 30 days after RFA)|Coagulation Zone Volume, The size of the coagulation zone was determined on CT imaging obtained after RFA for the single index tumor., Up to day 50 from study enrollment (target 30 days after RFA)
Feasibility Rate, Feasibility rate is defined as the percentage of participants completing radiofrequency ablation following 9 days of sorafenib or placebo therapy., Up to day 14 since enrollment|Number of Treatment-Related Grade 1-4 Adverse Events (AEs) by Day 9, AEs were assessed based on the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v3.0). The number of Grade 1-4 AEs with treatment attribution possibly, probably or definitely related up to day 9 of study drug treatment were counted for this outcome. Worst grade by patient within AE type was calculated. Participants could have multiple different AE types within a grade., Day 9|Number of Treatment-Related Grade 1-4 Adverse Events (AEs) on Day of Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA), AEs were assessed based on the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v3.0). The number of Grade 1-4 AEs with treatment attribution possibly, probably or definitely related on day of RFA treatment were counted for this outcome. Worst grade by patient within AE type was calculated. Participants could have multiple AE types within a grade., Up to day 14 (target day 10 RFA)|Number of Treatment-Related Grade 1-4 Adverse Events (AEs) One Month After Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA), AEs were assessed based on the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v3.0). The number of Grade 1-4 AEs with treatment attribution possibly, probably or definitely related one month after RFA treatment were counted for this outcome. Worst grade by patient within AE type was calculated. Participants could have multiple AE types within a grade., Up to day 40 post RFA (target 30 days)
Hepatocellular cancer (HCC) has a poor prognosis with increasing mortality in the United States. Because HCC generally develops in patients with underlying liver disease, resection is often not possible. Liver transplant improves survival for HCC patients but given the national organ donor shortage often patients have to wait a considerable time for transplant. Liver-directed therapies such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA) remain important tools to control tumor growth and to potentially "bridge" patients to liver transplant. However, liver-directed therapies for HCC tumors greater than 3cm in size are suboptimal, leaving a critical unmet need.

Antiangiogenic systemic agents, such as oral sorafenib, reduce tumor blood flow and have been shown to improve RFA efficacy in animal and in computer models.