Ibrutinib With Methotrexate and Temozolomide for Patients With Newly Diagnosed Primary CNS Lymphoma
The purpose of the study is to test the efficacy and tolerability of a combination treatment of methotrexate, ibrutinib, and temozolomide (MIT regimen) in treating patients who have newly-diagnosed primary CNS lymphoma.
Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma|PCNSL|Non Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Temozolomide
the overall response (complete response + partial response)，Investigator-Assessed, The overall response rate (ORR) including complete response (CR), unconfirmed complete (CRu) and partial response (PR) according to the 2005 Response Criteria of the International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG), up to 24 months|the toxicity profile of the ibrutinib/MTX/ temozolomide combination therapy, All subjects who received at least one dose of MIT will be included in the safety analysis. Adverse events will be graded by the investigator according to the NCI-CTCAE Version 5.0. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) will be summarised and tabulated according to the primary system organ class and preferred term. Type, incidence, severity, and seriousness of adverse events (AEs) including physical examination, safety laboratory parameters, vital signs, and so on will be analyzed., up to 24 months
Complete response (CR) rate, The CR rate is defined as the proportion of patients who achieve complete remission(CR)/unconfirmed complete (CRu) based on the 2005 Response Criteria of the International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG)., up to 24 months|Duration of response（DOR）, Duration of response is defined as the time from the date of first occurrence of CR or PR to the date of the first documented PD or death due to any cause., up to 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), 1 year and 2 years PFS rate.Disease progression was based on the 2005 Response Criteria of the International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group (IPCG), 1 year and 2 years|overall survival (OS), 1-year and 2-year OS rates., 1 year and 2 years
Describe the tumor mutation profile by NGS, DNA from tumor tissue and CSF will be sequencing by next generation sequencing (NGS).Identify the PNCSL-related variants and gene expression alterations by NGS., up to 24 months|Relationship between prognostic and gene mutation in patients with PCNSL, Will be correlated with treatment response, mutational analysis using next-generation sequencing, and characterization of aberrant gene expression in PCNSL samples, up to 24 months
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a rare and aggressive extranodal Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma. Induction treatment of PCNSL in most reported single-arm or randomized trials includes high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX)-based therapy, temozolomide, with or without cytarabine and the anti-CD20 antibody rituximab. A better combination remains undefined. Treatment is associated with considerable morbidity and disease recurrences with a 5-year survival of approximately 40%.

The BTK inhibitor ibrutinib has shown antitumor activity in patients with recurrent or refractory PCNSL. However, tumor responses to single-agent ibrutinib in CNS lymphoma are often incomplete or transient. Efficacy and safety of ibrutinib in combination with cytotoxic agents are worth to be discovered. Grommes et al.have shown ibrutinib in combination with methotrexate and rituximab are safe and shows promising activity in recurrent/refractory CNS lymphoma. In comparison to their prior study with single-agent ibrutinib, the radiographic response of r/r PCNSL was higher with the ibrutinib/HD-MTX/rituximab combination regimen and PFS was longer with the combination therapy. The study has shown that ibrutinib combined with chemotherapy were superior to ibrutinib single agent and overcome the transient effect of ibrutinib in relapsed PCNSL. However, there are some limitations in interpreting Grommes' study results, especially the heterogeneous patient population with inclusion of both PCNSL and SCNSL. Most recently, the role of rituximab in PCNSL has become clearly. In the HOVON 105/ALLG NHL 24 study, the addition of rituximab to a methotrexate-based regimen did not demonstrate a significant benefit on clinical outcome. We therefore initiate this study aim to evaluate the activity and safety of ibrutinib in combination with Methotrexate and temozolomide (MIT regimen) in newly diagnosed PCNSL patients.