Prospective Non-randomized Evaluation of Oncoplastic Surgery
Breast conserving therapy (BCT) is the standard treatment for intraductal or invasive breast cancer patients. However cosmetic results, e.g. symmetry and nipple displacement, are sometimes poor reducing the quality of life. The use of immediate techniques for oncoplastic surgery (iTOP) seems to improve subjective cosmetic outcome. Oncologic safety of iTOP has been demonstrated by several authors using restrospective analyses. However, no prospective observational trial has been done to objectively evaluate cosmetic and oncologic outcome comparing BCT with iTOP. The aim of this study is to investigate this issue within a prospective non randomized observational trial at the Medical University Vienna.
Breast Image Scale Index for Self Esteem Evaluation|Breast Symmetry Index|Quality of Life|Morbidity|Oncological Outcome
PROCEDURE: Breast Surgery|PROCEDURE: Breast Surgery
breast image scale, self esteem measured by the breast image scale will be assessed before and every 6 months after surgery as primary endpoint., 2 years
quality of life, BREAST Q, non-validated questionnaires, 2 years|Morbidity, Necrosis, infection, reoperations and bleedings as well as heamtoma and seroma formation will be clinically assessed after surgery, 6 months|breast symmetry index, Using the breast analyzing tool software we will analyze breast symmetry before and every 6 months after surgery, 2 years|oncologic parameters, local, distent and overal survival 2 as well as 5 years after surgery will be assessed, 2-5 years
Breast conserving therapy (BCT) is the standard treatment for intraductal or invasive breast cancer patients. However cosmetic results, e.g. symmetry and nipple displacement, are sometimes poor reducing the quality of life. The use of immediate techniques for oncoplastic surgery (iTOP) seems to improve subjective cosmetic outcome. Oncologic safety of iTOP has been demonstrated by several authors using restrospective analyses. However, no prospective observational trial has been done to objectively evaluate cosmetic and oncologic outcome comparing BCT with iTOP. The aim of this study is to investigate this issue within a prospective non randomized observational trial at the Medical University Vienna.