Pre-op Rectal ChemoRad +/- Cetuximab
The purpose of this research study is to find out what effects (good and bad) cetuximab has on rectal cancer.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|RADIATION: Pelvic irradiation
Percentage of Pathologic Response Rate (pCR) With 95% Confidence Interval., A pathologic complete response (pCR) is defined as no pathologic evidence of invasive disease at the primary site in the bowel wall or in examined mesorectal tissue and/or lymph nodes., 5 years
To Determine Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on RECIST Local Recurrence-free Survival in These Patient Groups; Overall and Recurrence-free Survival in These Cohorts., Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., 5 years|5- Year Overall Survival (OS) Rate, Overall survival is measured from the date of randomization to the date of death for a dead patient. If a patient is still alive or is lost to follow up, the patient will be censored at the date of last contact., 5 years|Recurrence-free Survival (RFS) Rate at 5 Years, RFS is measured from the date of randomization to the date of first documented disease recurrence or date of death, whichever comes first. If a patient neither recurrences nor dies, this patient will be censored at the date of last contact., 5 years|KRAS Mutation Rate, Percentage of Participants with KRAS mutation., 5 years
Rectal cancer remains a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States. Standard treatment for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer generally includes combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy administered either before (neoadjuvant) or after (adjuvant) definitive surgical resection. Published data from Germany has suggested advantages to a neoadjuvant strategy. Currently, the standard concurrent chemoradiotherapy regimen in the United States is pelvic irradiation administered concurrently with 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) given as a protracted venous infusion. However, local recurrence remains a problem. Recently completed randomized trials of chemoradiotherapy have demonstrated local recurrence rates between 8-17% even with currently accepted standard chemoradiotherapy and adequate surgical management.

Several recent trials have explored the use of radiotherapy and cetuximab with good results.

Because of the non-overlapping toxicity profiles and the potentially diverse and complimentary mechanisms of action, the combination of chemotherapy plus ERBITUX given concurrently with pelvic radiotherapy may improve on the outcomes seen with current standards for patients with locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the rectum.