Aromatherapy for Integrated Cancer Care
The purpose of this clinical trial is to determine the feasibility and effectiveness of aromatherapy in relief of commonly reported symptoms in cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. Aromatherapy is a noninvasive, minimal risk intervention that could potentially alleviate the severity of treatment-related symptoms. This study will evaluate the ability of four aromatherapy scents (ginger, lavender, orange, jojoba) to reduce the severity of seven chemotherapy-induced symptoms (nausea, vomiting, pain, anxiety/distress, fatigue, sleep difficulties, and lack of appetite). Jojoba oil is a " carrier oil" and will act as a placebo comparator in this study. Jojoba oil is present in small amount (1 drop) in the ginger, lavender, and orange aromatherapy inhalers. As part of the study, the participants will be asked to use an aromatherapy inhaler, which resembles a lipstick container, during three chemotherapy cycles. The participants will use the aromatherapy inhaler for 7 consecutive days. The investigators will ask the participants questions regarding demographics, clinical information, current severity of symptoms, and current methods of symptom management. There is a non-intervention baseline cycle during which subjects rate the severity of the seven different symptoms from 0 to 10 for seven consecutive days during their first chemotherapy study cycle. The next two study cycles are intervention cycles using the randomized aromatherapy. The participants will rate the severity of seven different symptoms from 0 to 10 each day the aromatherapy inhaler during one or two chemotherapy cycles (i.e., 7 consecutive days during each chemotherapy cycle). At the end of the study, the participants will be asked about his/her satisfaction with the aromatherapy used during the study. All of these measurements will provide a better understanding of the effectiveness of aromatherapy for symptom management.
Cancer
OTHER: Ginger aromatherapy|OTHER: Orange aromatherapy|OTHER: Lavender aromatherapy|OTHER: Jojoba aromatherapy
Number of participants that complete the intervention., Retention rate will be determined by arm., 3 months|Compliance rate, The compliance rate is the percentage of participants that report using the aromatherapy as described in protocol (i.e., at least three sniffs four times daily)., 3 months
Mean composite severity score, A composite symptom severity score will be calculated for each day during each Study Cycle. The mean composite symptom severity score will be the mean of all six composite severity scores for each cycle. We will use ANCOVA analyses to compare the maximum composite symptom severity scores and mean composite symptom severity scores between Study Cycle 3 vs Study Cycle 1 and Study Cycle 2 vs. Study Cycle 1., 3 months|Maximum composite severity score, The maximum composite symptom severity score will be the highest severity score across the 6 days for that cycle. The mean composite symptom severity score will be the mean of all six composite severity scores for each cycle. We will use ANCOVA analyses to compare the maximum composite symptom severity scores and mean composite symptom severity scores between Study Cycle 3 vs Study Cycle 1 and Study Cycle 2 vs. Study Cycle 1., 3 months
This study will evaluate the ability of four aromatherapy scents (ginger, lavender, orange, jojoba) to reduce the severity of seven chemotherapy-induced symptoms (nausea, vomiting, pain, anxiety/distress, fatigue, sleep difficulties, and lack of appetite). Subjects will participate in the study for two or three chemotherapy cycles. The first cycle is a non-intervention baseline cycle during which subjects rate the severity of the seven different symptoms from 0 to 10 for seven consecutive days during their first chemotherapy study cycle. The next one or two cycles are intervention cycle(s) using the assigned randomized aromatherapy. The subjects will rate the severity of seven different symptoms from 0 to 10 each day the aromatherapy inhaler during one or two chemotherapy cycles (i.e., 7 consecutive days during each chemotherapy cycle) and report if they felt the aromatherapy was helping with symptoms compared to the previous cycle. At the end of the study, the participants will be asked about his/her satisfaction with the aromatherapy used during the study. All of these measurements will provide a better understanding of the effectiveness of aromatherapy for symptom management.