Effect of Sodium Thiosulfate on Nephrotoxicity of Cisplatin Intraperitoneal Heat-perfusion Chemotherapy
Ovarian cancer is the most lethal malignancy of the female genital tract. Cytoreductive surgery combined with chemotherapy is the primary treatment for ovarian cancer, and radical tumor resection is an important means to improve the prognosis. However, even after complete tumor resection, 75% of patients with ovarian cancer still recur within 3 years after the initial treatment and eventually die from recurrence. In ovarian cancer, the lesions are located primarily in the peritoneal cavity. High-grade evidence demonstrates that the use of intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy (HIPEC) with cisplatin after cytoreductive surgery significantly improves the outcome in some patients with ovarian cancer. Currently, this is the only non-pharmacologic treatment that reduces both the risk of recurrence and death from ovarian cancer with a multi treatment. However, HIPEC with cisplatin can lead to acute kidney injury, and a serious complication that can seriously affect the short and long-term prognosis of patients. Sodium thiosulfate has previously been reported to reduce the incidence of acute kidney injury after HIPEC with cisplatin, but this finding has not been confirmed in a high-level study. Therefore, we propose a multi-center, prospective, open-label, randomized, controlled trial including 110 patients with ovarian cancer who received HIPEC with cisplatin, to evaluate whether sodium thiosulfate combined with hydration (55 patients in the trial group) can reduce the incidence of acute kidney injury after HIPEC with cisplatin compared with hydration alone (55 patients in the control group), and to provide high-level evidence for the rationale of using sodium thiosulfate for nephrotoxicity relief in cisplatin HIPEC.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Acute Kidney Injury Due to Circulatory Failure
DRUG: Sodium Sulfate|OTHER: Hydration|DRUG: Cisplatin
Calculate the incidence of acute kidney injury after HIPEC based on creatinine levels and 24-hour urine output according to KDIGO criteria., To determine whether the use of sodium sulfate combined with hydration reduces the incidence of acute kidney injury (KDIGO criteria grade 1-3) effectively in the intention to treat population compared with hydration alone in patients receiving HIPEC with cisplatin (75mg/m\^2,43 °C,90 minutes) according to creatinine levels and 24-hour urine., Within one week after patients receive cisplatin-based HIPEC.
Calculate the incidence of chronic kidney injury after HIPEC based on creatinine levels according to KDIGO criteria., To determine whether the use of sodium sulfate combined with hydration reduces the incidence of chronic kidney injury effectively in the intention to treat population compared with hydration alone in patients receiving HIPEC with cisplatin (75mg/m\^2,43 °C,90 minutes) according to creatinine levels., Through study completion, an average of 2 year|Number of patients with sodium sulfate-related adverse events assessed by CTCAE v5.0., To investigate adverse events associated with sodium sulfate. The Adverse events were evaluated and graded according to CTCAE5.0, 72 hours after sodium sulfate administration.|Time from randomization to relapse or death（DFS）., Time from randomization to relapse or death. The diagnosis of disease recurrence includes CA125 more than two times the minimum value, as specified by the Gynecologic Cancer International Collaborative Group (GCIG), or according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria. Any one of the above two criteria is met first, then the tumor is recurrent., From date of randomisation to date of first recorded progression or death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years.
Ovarian cancer is the most lethal malignancy of the female genital tract. Cytoreductive surgery combined with chemotherapy is the primary treatment for ovarian cancer, and radical tumor resection is an important means to improve the prognosis. However, even after complete tumor resection, 75% of patients with ovarian cancer still recur within 3 years after the initial treatment and eventually die from recurrence. In ovarian cancer, the lesions are located primarily in the peritoneal cavity. High-grade evidence demonstrates that the use of intraperitoneal hyperthermic chemotherapy (HIPEC) with cisplatin after cytoreductive surgery significantly improves the outcome in some patients with ovarian cancer. Currently, this is the only non-pharmacologic treatment that reduces both the risk of recurrence and death from ovarian cancer with a multi treatment. However, HIPEC with cisplatin can lead to acute kidney injury, and a serious complication that can seriously affect the short and long-term prognosis of patients. Sodium thiosulfate has previously been reported to reduce the incidence of acute kidney injury after HIPEC with cisplatin, but this finding has not been confirmed in a high-level study. Therefore, we propose a multi-center, prospective, open-label, randomized, controlled trial including 110 patients with ovarian cancer who received HIPEC with cisplatin, to evaluate whether sodium thiosulfate combined with hydration (55 patients in the trial group) can reduce the incidence of acute kidney injury after HIPEC with cisplatin compared with hydration alone (55 patients in the control group), and to provide high-level evidence for the rationale of using sodium thiosulfate for nephrotoxicity relief in cisplatin HIPEC.