First-line EXL01 With Nivolumab and FOLFOX for PD-L1 CPS ≥5 Metastatic Gastric Cancer
This is a randomized non-comparative, multicenter phase II study in patients with PD-L1 PD-L1 combined positive score (CPS) ≥5 advanced gastric cancer to evaluate the efficacy and safety of nivolumab and FOLFOX in combination with EXL01 as first-line treatment.

After signing the informed consent form, and upon confirmation of the patient's eligibility, patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to either the nivolumab and FOLFOX plus EXL01 arm (experimental) or the nivolumab and FOLFOX arm (control). In both arms, treatment will be given until PD, unacceptable toxicity or for a maximum of 24 months (52 cycles).
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: FOLFOX regimen|BIOLOGICAL: EXL01
Objective response rate (ORR) at 4 months, ORR measured at 4 months post randomization, At 4 months
Overall survival (OS), OS with nivolumab plus FOLFOX with or without EXL01, Maximum 3 years after randomization|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS per RECIST v 1.1 and iRECIST of nivolumab plus FOLFOX with or without EXL01, Maximum 3 years after randomization|Adverse events, Safety of nivolumab plus FOLFOX with or without EXL01, Maximum 3 years after randomization|Specific immune-related adverse events (AEs), The incidence of specific immune-related AEs (hepatitis, colitis, myositis, endocrinopathies), Maximum 3 years after randomization|Duration of response (DoR), DoR with FOLFOX plus nivolumab with or without EXL01, Maximum 3 years after randomization|Objective response rate, ORR per RECIST v 1.1 criteria nivolumab plus FOLFOX with or without EXL01., Maximum 3 years after randomization|2-year and 3-year OS, 2-year and 3-year OS rate of nivolumab plus FOLFOX with or without EXL01, At 2 years and 3 years|1-year and 2-year PFS, 1-year and 2-year PFS rates per RECIST v 1.1 and iRECIST (immune RECIST) criteria with nivolumab plus FOLFOX with or without EXL01, At 1 year and at 2 years
The primary objective of the study is to assess the objective response rate (ORR) at 4 months (based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor \[RECIST\] criteria) of patients with PD-L1 CPS ≥ 5 advanced gastric cancer treated by EXL01 plus nivolumab and FOLFOX as first-line treatment.

With a randomization ratio of 2:1 it will be necessary to randomize 40 patients in the control arm, 80 patients in the experimental arm and so a total of 120 evaluable patients in the study. Randomization will be stratified by PD-L1 expression level, center, and prior gastrectomy.

In the experimental arm, the primary analysis will be on modified intent-to-treat (mITT) population. Confirmative analysis will be conducted firstly in the ITT population and secondly, in the Per Protocol (PP). Analyses of safety will be conducted in safety population.

The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate time to event endpoints and described using the median and event-free rates over time with CI.