Study of Gemcitabine and Cisplatin With or Without Cetuximab in Urothelial Cancer
This study will compare the effects, good and/or bad, of chemotherapy (Gemcitabine and Cisplatin) with or without the addition of the chemotherapy drug Cetuximab to find out which treatment is better.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine,|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cetuximab
Percentage of Participants That Respond to Treatment in Arm 1 and Arm 2, The primary objective is to compare the overall response rate of participants with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma treated with gemcitabine and cisplatin with or without cetuximab.

Overall response rate is defined as the percentage of participants that experience Complete Response (CR) (Disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR) (\>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions)., 3 years
The Number of Grade 3 to 5 Adverse Events Experienced by Arm 1 and Arm 2, One of the secondary outcomes was to assess the safety and tolerability of treatment for both arms.

The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0 were utilized for adverse event reporting., 3 years|Median Progression-free Survival Time in Months, Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 3 years|Median Overall Survival in Months, Median overall survival in months is provided. One participant who progressed from chemotherapy in arm 1 received cyclophosphamide and achieved long-term disease control therefore there is no upper limit for the 95% confidence interval., 3 years
Urothelial cancer typically begins in the lining of the bladder, the balloon-shaped organ in the pelvic area that stores urine. Urothelial cancer can also begin in the ureter (the tube connecting the kidney and bladder), part of the kidney itself, or the urethra (the tube you pass urine out of). Some Urothelial cancers remain confined to the lining, while in other cases they spread to other areas. Treatment for these cancers varies greatly depending on the stage of disease at the time of diagnosis. Study participants in this research study will have a diagnosis of urothelial cancer that is advanced or has come back after prior therapy.

There are two standard chemotherapeutic regimens for the management of this disease. One is the combination of the drugs, methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (MVAC). However the toxicities associated with this treatment regimen (side effects) is high.

The other is a combination of two drugs called Cisplatin and Gemcitabine. These drugs are also known to destroy urothelial cancer cells, and are better tolerated by patients. All study participants will receive both of these drugs.

Another anti-cancer drug called Cetuximab is known to delay or prevent tumor growth and in some cases to lead to death of cancer cells by blocking certain cellular pathways that lead to tumor development. This drug has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of colorectal cancer and for treatment of head and neck cancers. The use of Cetuximab for the treatment of urothelial cancer is investigational in this study.

The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and efficacy of Gemcitabine and Cisplatin administered with or without the addition of Cetuximab in study participants with urothelial cancer.

This is a randomized research study. Study participants will be randomized to receive either gemcitabine and cisplatin alone or in combination with Cetuximab.