Evaluation of Low Flow and Normal Flow Anesthesia Management in Robotic Assisted Laparoscopic Surgeries
Robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery has many advantages compared to conventional open surgery, such as less postoperative pain, shorter hospital stays, and faster recovery times. Robot-assisted surgeries require general anesthesia. In our clinic, we routinely apply low-flow anesthesia methods in addition to normal flow methods in many surgical applications, according to clinician preferences. The aim of this study is to determine the effects of low flow (0.5 lt/min) and normal flow (\>1 lt/min) anesthesia applications in robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgeries.

To compare perioperative hemodynamic and respiratory parameters in terms of inhalation agent and soda lime consumption.
Oncology
PROCEDURE: low-flow anesthesia
Hemodynamic Parameters, It was aimed to compare heart rates in patients undergoing low flow (0.5 lt/min) and normal flow (\>1 lt/min) anesthesia., Perioperative period(approximately 3-6 hours)|Hemodynamic Parameters, It was aimed to compare blood pressure in patients undergoing low flow (0.5 lt/min) and normal flow (\>1 lt/min) anesthesia., Perioperative period(approximately 3-6 hours)|Respiratory parameters, It was aimed to compare oxygen saturation in patients undergoing low flow (0.5 lt/min) and normal flow (\>1 lt/min) anesthesia., Perioperative period(approximately 3-6 hours)|Respiratory parameters, It was aimed to compare endtidal carbon dioxide in patients undergoing low flow (0.5 lt/min) and normal flow (\>1 lt/min) anesthesia., Perioperative period(approximately 3-6 hours)|Inhalation agent (sevoflurane) consumption, It was aimed to compare inhalation agent (sevoflurane) consumption (lt) in patients undergoing low flow (0.5 lt/min) and normal flow (\>1 lt/min) anesthesia., Perioperative period(approximately 3-6 hours)|Soda lime consumption, It was aimed to compare soda lime consumption in patients undergoing low flow (0.5 lt/min) and normal flow (\>1 lt/min) anesthesia.

Soda lime consumption refers to the number of changes of the soda lime canister., Perioperative period(approximately 3-6 hours)
Robotic surgery is the performance of laparoscopic surgery using a robotic interface. The robotic surgery system used today is called Da Vinci S. In surgeries performed with the help of a robot, the surgeon can work more precisely and with greater maneuverability. Therefore, an operation can be performed that is less traumatic for the patient than other methods.Robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery has many advantages compared to conventional open surgery, such as less postoperative pain, shorter hospital stays, and faster recovery times. Robot-assisted surgeries require general anesthesia. In these applications, fresh gas flow in anesthesia systems can be made with traditional high, normal or low flow strategies, depending on the preference of the clinicians.Low-flow anesthesia creates a breathing air closer to physiological conditions during anesthesia by heating and humidifying the inhaled gases. In addition, it provides cost advantage by reducing inhalation agent consumption and reduces atmospheric pollution. It is suggested that the use of both fresh gas flow amounts does not pose a safety risk for patients, and that the use of low-flow anesthesia methods should be more widespread due to the advantages it provides. In our clinic, investigators routinely apply low-flow anesthesia methods in addition to normal flow methods in many surgical applications, according to clinician preferences. The aim of this study is to determine the effects of low flow (0.5 lt/min) and normal flow (\>1 lt/min) anesthesia applications in robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgeries.

To compare perioperative hemodynamic and respiratory parameters in terms of inhalation agent and soda lime consumption.