The Effect of Sensory Stimulation Threshold on the Efficacy of Pulsed Radiofrequency Applied to the Dorsal Root Ganglion in Patients with Chronic Lumbar Radicular Pain
Lomber dorsal root ganglion pRF is an interventional treatment options in the treatment of lumbar radicular pain. The goal of this study is to investigate the effect of sensory threshold outcomes on pain severity during dorsal root ganglion pulsed radiofrequency (DRG-pRF). It will also learn effects about disability due to chronic LRP. The main questions it aims to answer are:

Does lower sensory threshold result in lower pain scores and chronic LRP related disability?

Participants will:

Take DRG-pRF procedure for 4 minutes. Visit the clinic at 1. and 3. month for questionnaries.
Dorsal Root Ganglion|Pulsed Radiofrequency|Chronic Pain|Lumbar Radiculopathy|Lumbar Spinal Stenosis
PROCEDURE: Dorsal Root Ganglion Pulsed Radiofrequency
Postprocedure pain severity at 3th month, Severity of pain will be assessed with Numeric Rating Scale (NRS-11) at 3 months after interventions. NRS-11 is a 11 point likert type scale. Higher scores represent more severe pain., From procedure to 3 months after prodecure
Postprocedure pain severity at 30. min, Severity of pain will be assessed with Numeric Rating Scale (NRS-11) at 30. min after interventions at bedside. NRS-11 is a 11 point likert type scale. Higher scores represent more severe pain., From procedure to 30 minustes after procedure|Postprocedure first month pain severity, Severity of pain will be assessed with Numeric Rating Scale (NRS-11) at 1 month after interventions. NRS-11 is a 11 point likert type scale. Higher scores represent more severe pain., From procedure to 1 month after procedure|Postprocedure first month OSWESTRY scores, Disability will be assessed with OSWESTRY Diasability Index at 1 month. OSWESTRY measures pain related lumbar disability. It has 0 minimum and 100 maximum value. Lower scores represent better outcomes., From procedure to 1 month after procedure|Postprocedure 3th month OSWESTRY scores, Disability will be assessed with OSWESTRY Diasability Index at 3 month. OSWESTRY measures pain related lumbar disability. It has 0 minimum and 100 maximum value. Lower scores represent better outcomes., From procedure to 3 month after procedure
Lumbar radicular pain is characterized by sharp, stabbing, or throbbing pain radiating to one or more dermatomes. It is a common and challenging condition for clinicians to manage in pain practice. Conservative treatments such as physical therapy, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, rest, and exercise may fail, leading to chronic pain. In such cases, minimally invasive methods such as epidural steroid injection (ESI) or pulsed radiofrequency (pRF) of the dorsal root ganglion (DRG) may be preferred.

Unlike conventional radiofrequency, pRF does not cause ablation. Due to the intermittent delivery of energy generated by the electric current, the target tissue temperature does not exceed 42°C. This creates a magnetic field that modulates pain without causing neuronal damage.

The DRG, highly sensitive to mechanical compression, is a critical target in radicular pain. There is evidence supporting the efficacy of DRG pRF in chronic lumbar radicular pain. Studies comparing pRF alone or in combination with ESI versus ESI alone have found it effective in providing long-term pain relief. However, despite the increasing body of evidence, studies are lacking on the impact of the proximity of pRF to the target neuronal tissue on clinical outcomes.

The primary aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between the sensory stimulation threshold, indicating the proximity to the target tissue during DRG pRF, and the reduction in Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) scores at the 3-month follow-up. Secondary objectives include examining the relationship between Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and NRS scores at various assessment time points.

The DRG, highly sensitive to mechanical compression, is a critical target in radicular pain (5,6). There is evidence supporting the efficacy of DRG pRF in chronic lumbar radicular pain. Studies comparing pRF alone or in combination with ESI versus ESI alone have found it effective in providing long-term pain relief (7). However, despite the increasing body of evidence, studies are lacking on the impact of the proximity of pRF to the target neuronal tissue on clinical outcomes.

The primary aim of this study is to investigate the relationship between the sensory stimulation threshold, indicating the proximity to the target tissue during DRG pRF, and the reduction in Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) scores at the 3-month follow-up. Secondary objectives include examining the relationship between Oswestry Disability Index (ODI) and NRS scores at various assessment time points.