Three Arm Rand Trial of HD Light vs Reveal® Cap vs Endocuff Cap for Detection of Colorectal Adenomas (TRACE)
Protocol Title: Three Arm Prospective Randomized controlled trial of High-Definition White-light colonoscopy versus High-Definition White-light colonoscopy with Reveal® Distal Attachment Cap versus High-Definition White-light colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision for the detection of colorectal adenomas

Hypothesis: Detection rate of adenomas in patients will be higher in procedures performed with High-Definition White-light (HDWL) colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap and HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision compared to HDWL colonoscopes alone

Design: Multicenter, Prospective, randomized controlled study

Primary Aim: To compare the proportion of subjects with at least one adenoma detected during HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision.

Secondary Aims: To compare the number of adenomas detected per subject with HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision.

To compare the detection rates for polyp subtypes (including advanced adenomas, serrated polyps, right sided adenomas, etc.), cecal intubation rate, insertion time, withdrawal time, and complications of HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision.
Colorectal Adenoma
PROCEDURE: Colonoscopy|DEVICE: distal Cap|DEVICE: Endocuff
Adenoma detection rate, To compare the proportion of subjects with at least one adenoma detected during HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., Through the study (1 year)
Number of Adenomas per person, To compare the number of adenomas detected per subject with HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., Through the study (1 year)|detection rates of advanced adenomas, To compare the detection rates for advanced adenomas of HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., Through the study (1 year)|detect rates of serrated polyps, To compare the detection rates for serrated polyps of HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., Through the study (1 year)|detect rates of right sided adenomas, To compare the detection rates of right sided adenomas of HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., Through the study (1 year)|to determine cecal intubation time, To compare the cecal intubation time of HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., Through the study (1 year)|to determine insertion and withdrawal time, To compare the insertion and withdrawal time of the procedure of HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., Through the study (1 year)|to determine complications, To compare the complications of procedure of HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision., Through the study(1 year)
Hypothesis and specific aims of the Study

We hypothesize that the detection rate of patients with colorectal adenomas will be higher with HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap and HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision compared to HDWL colonoscopy alone.

Primary Aim:

To compare the proportion of subjects with at least one adenoma detected during HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision.

Secondary Aims:

1. To compare the number of adenomas detected per subject with HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision.
2. To compare the detection rates for polyp subtypes (including advanced adenomas, serrated polyps, right sided adenomas, etc.), cecal intubation rate, insertion time, withdrawal time, and complications of HDWL colonoscopy versus HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® distal attachment cap versus HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision.

Methodology:

This will be a prospective, randomized controlled study. Subjects referred for screening or surveillance colonoscopy will be prospectively enrolled. They will be randomized to one of 3 arms, i.e. HDWL colonoscopy HDWL colonoscopy with Reveal® cap or HDWL colonoscopy with Endocuff Vision.

Enrollment:

A member of the research team will approach a potential subject to discuss participation in the study, including background of the proposed study, inclusion and exclusion criteria, benefits and risks of the procedures and follow-up. If this is of interest to the subject, the informed consent form is discussed and presented. The subject must sign the consent form prior to enrollment. This form will have prior approval of the study site's Institutional Review Board (IRB). Failure to obtain informed consent renders the subject ineligible for the study.

Length of the study:

The duration of the study is expected to be approximately 12 months. Enrollment of study patients will cease when approximately 1227 patients have been enrolled.

Inclusion criteria

* Referral for screening or surveillance colonoscopy
* Ability to provide informed consent

Exclusion criteria

* Prior history of colon cancer
* History of inflammatory bowel disease
* Prior surgical resection of any part of the colon
* Use of anti-platelet agents or anticoagulants that precludes the removal of polyps during the procedure
* History of polyposis syndrome or HNPCC
* Inability to give informed consent
* Family history of colon cancer in a first degree relative \< 60 years or two first degree relatives with colorectal cancer

For three groups, moderate sedation will be administered in a standard fashion with intravenous midazolam, meperidine or fentanyl prior to undergoing colonoscopy.

The colonoscope (HDWL colonoscope or HDWL colonoscope with Reveal® cap or HDWL colonoscope with Endocuff Vision) will be inserted and cecum will be intubated. Photo documentation of the cecum will be performed. The colonic mucosa will be carefully visualized upon withdrawal of the colonoscope.

The time from the point of insertion of the colonoscope into the rectum to the intubation of cecum will be recorded with a stop watch by a research coordinator and will be documented as the "insertion time".

The time spent in inspecting the mucosa during withdrawal of the colonoscope will be documented as the "withdrawal time". During withdrawal of the colonoscope the stop watch will be stopped whenever mucosa is being cleaned, fluid/solid debris is suctioned or a polyp is being removed to ensure that the withdrawal time is the actual representation of the mucosal inspection time. Meticulous technique will be employed during the withdrawal phase with special efforts to visualize portions of colonic mucosa on the proximal aspects of haustral folds, flexures and valves.

All polyps detected will be documented: size, location, and morphology (using the Paris classification - Appendix A). Photo documentation of the polyps will be performed.

Polyps will then be removed with a biopsy forceps or snare and sent for histopathological evaluation, each in a separate jar and labeled accordingly.

The bowel preparation will be evaluated and graded according to previously reported criteria using the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (Appendix B). Complications including any mucosal trauma from the high definition colonoscope alone or with high definition colonoscope with Reveal® cap or Endocuff Vision, perforation or gastrointestinal bleeding (requiring intervention) will be recorded for three groups.