TXA127 in Enhancement of Engraftment in Adult Double Cord Blood Transplantation
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of TXA127 on neutrophil and platelet counts in adult patients who have undergone a double cord blood transplant. The study will also evaluate the effect of TXA127 on chemotherapy-induced mucositis, an inflammation of the mucous membranes in the digestive tract (mouth to anus) and immune reconstitution which helps patients fight infections. For patients undergoing CBT, both neutrophil and platelet normalization and immune reconstitution can be delayed. TXA127 has shown to be well tolerated by patients and appears to induce a rapid production of neutrophils and platelets in the bloodstream as well as increase the immune system components. It has also been shown to reduce the severity of chemotherapy-induced mucositis.
Double Cord Blood Transplant|Acute Myelogenous Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelofibrosis|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Chronic Myelocytic Leukemia|Non Hodgkins Lymphoma|Hodgkins Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: TXA127 300 mcg/kg/day|DRUG: TXA127 1000 mcg/kg/day
Safety of TXA127 (Angiotensin 1-7) in subjects undergoing double cord blood transplantation, The safety and tolerability profile of TXA127 will be provided by descriptively summarizing, at a minimum, the following outcomes: 1) number and proportion of patients with adverse events presented by preferred term, by system organ class (SOC), and by severity grade and relationship to TXA127, as assessed by the Investigator; 2) number and proportion of patients terminating TXA127 due to adverse events related to TXA127; 3) Day 100 treatment-related mortality (TRM) rate; 4) Day 100 mortality rate; 5) number of red blood cell and other blood component transfusions; 6) incidence of infection., 100 days post-transplantation
Platelet transfusion requirements, Platelet transfusion requirements based on units of platelets transfused and days of platelet transfusions, 100 days post-transplantation|Immune reconstitution, Immune reconstitution will be assessed via the measurement of peripheral blood concentrations of CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, CD19+, and CD56+ cells (performed at Study Days 62 and 100)., 100 days post-transplantation|Incidence, duration, and severity grade of mucositis, Incidence of mucositis is defined by the occurrence of least one adverse event with MedDRA preferred term that includes "mucositis" or "stomatitis". The severity grade will be determined by NCI-CTCAE., 100 days post-transplantation|Incidence, duration, and severity grade of acute graft-vs-host-disease (aGVHD), Incidence, severity and duration of aGVHD will be reported as a proportion (with 95% CIs) of subjects with Grade II-IV aGVHD. All incidents of aGVHD will at a minimum be listed, with the severity and time course included., 100 days post-transplantation|Time to engraftment/recovery, Time to neutrophil engraftment and platelet recovery, 100 days post-transplantation
Cord blood as a hematopoietic stem cell source has multiple advantages. Cord blood is normally discarded at birth and can easily be collected and stored. Availability of numerous CB banks has resulted in genetically diverse CB units including those from non-Caucasians. Once a suitable CB unit is located, confirmatory typing can be quickly performed and a donor unit can be shipped to the transplant center. Furthermore, because a CB graft results in a lower incidence of graft-versus-host-disease, one or two antigen-mismatched units are acceptable for transplantation. Despite these advantages, CB has a significant drawback which is that the number of hematopoietic stem cells obtained from a unit of CB is significantly lower than from a bone marrow (BM) harvest or peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) harvest. Both engraftment and immune reconstitution are delayed in patients undergoing CB transplant. TXA127 is pharmaceutically-formulated angiotensin 1-7, a non-hypertensive derivative of angiotensin II (which contains the 8th amino acid conferring receptor binding to blood pressure receptors). TXA127 has multilineage effects on hematopoietic progenitors in vitro and in vivo. The hematopoietic properties demonstrated in preclinical and clinical studies support the investigation of TXA127 to reduce time to neutrophil and platelet engraftment following transfusion of limited number of CD34+ cells.