Pyrotinib Versus Pertuzumab in Combination With Neoadjuvant Trastuzumab and Nab-Paclitaxel in HER2+ Early or Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
The study is being conducted to evaluate the efficacy, and safety of pyrotinib versus pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and nab-paclitaxel for neoadjuvant treatment in HER2+ early or locally advanced breast cancer patients. To explore whether pyrotinib regimen could provide better clinical results compared with pertuzumab in the study population.
HER2+ Early or Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
DRUG: pyrotinib + trastuzumab + nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: pertuzumab + trastuzumab + nab-paclitaxel
tpCR (totally pathological Complete Response) assessed by the IRC(Independent Review Committee), defined as the absence of any residual invasive cancer on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the resected breast specimen and all sampled ipsilateral lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant therapy and surgery., Pathologic response will be evaluated right after surgery, which will be performed within 14 days after the completion neoadjuvant therapy (four cycles, 21 days per cycle).
iDFS (Invasive disease-free survival), iDFS, defined as the time from the first date of no disease (i.e., date of surgery) to the first documentation of one of the following events:

1. Disease recurrence (local, regional, distant, or contralateral) after surgery
2. Death from any cause, from the date of surgery till two years after study-defined treatment.|EFS (event free survival), EFS, defined as time from randomization to the first documentation of one of the following events:

1. Disease progression (before surgery), as determined by the investigator using RECIST v1.1 Any evidence of in situ contralateral disease will not be identified as progressive disease (PD). Any evidence of invasive contralateral disease will be considered disease progression
2. Disease recurrence (local, regional, distant, or contralateral) after surgery
3. Death from any cause, from the date of surgery till two years after study-defined treatment.|ORR (Objective Response Rate), the proportion of patients who achieved Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) during Cycles 1-4, according to RECIST v1.1, At the end of neoadjuvant therapy (four cycles, 21 days per cycle).|the rate of adopting breast-conserving surgery, the proportion of patients who have undergone breast-conserving surgery, evaluated right after surgery, which will be performed within 14 days after the completion neoadjuvant therapy (four cycles, 21 days per cycle).
Incidence of serious adverse events and other adverse events of special interest, Assess the incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs) and other adverse events., through study completion, an average of 2.5 years.|Exploratory biomarker analyses, The correlation between baseline molecular biomarkers and efficacy outcomes will be evaluated. Biomarkers may include blood lipids and metabolomics profiles based on Nuclear Magnetic Resonance techniques., through study completion, an average of 2.5 years.
This study is a multi-center, randomized, open-label, controlled trial. Eligible patients will be randomized to neoadjuvant pyrotinib or pertuzumab containing regimen every 3 weeks for four cycles before surgery. Randomization was stratified by the following factors: hormone receptor status and primary tumor size. After completing four cycles of neoadjuvant treatment, all patients who are eligible for surgery will undergo surgery and have their pathologic response evaluated. Following surgery, patients will receive 90-100 mg/m2 epirubicin and 600 mg/m2 cyclophosphamide every 3 weeks for 4 cycles. Clinicians will select subsequent treatments for patients based on guidelines as well as clinical practice at each site.