A Trial of NIS793 With FOLFIRINOX in Pancreatic Cancer
This study is being done to evaluate the safety and efficacy of adding NIS793 to standard of care FOLFIRINOX treatment for pancreatic cancer.

The names of the study interventions involved in this study are:

* NIS793
* FOLFIRINOX (Folinic acid/Leucovorin, 5-Fluorouracil, Irinotecan, and Oxaliplatin)

Other interventions may include:

* Chemoradiation Therapy
* Surgery
Pancreatic Cancer|Resectable Pancreatic Cancer|Borderline Resectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: mFOLFIRINOX|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU)|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: NIS793|RADIATION: Chemoradiation|PROCEDURE: Surgery
Major Pathological Response Rate (MPR), Major pathological response (MPR) defined as \<5% residual tumor cells visible in the pancreatic resection specimen. The major pathological response rate will be analyzed among all patients who start protocol therapy, including those not resected due to early progression, death or off study., Pathology review is done in surgery assessments, once within 14 days prior to the operation.
Treatment-Related Toxicity Rate, All adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 as reported on case report forms will be counted. Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one treatment-related AE of any type during the time of observation., Cycle 1 Day 1 through 30 days post last treatment date, up to 9 months.|Median Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., From randomization (or registration) to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause, up to 9 months. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation.|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS is based on the Kaplan-Meier method, defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Post treatment follow up done at least once every 12 weeks (+/- 28 days), up to 9 months.
This is a randomized phase 2 study evaluating the efficacy of NIS793, a TGF-beta inhibitor, when added to a standard chemotherapy program of modified FOLFIRINOX for people with previously-untreated, resectable or borderline resectable pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved NIS793 as a treatment for any disease. NIS793 works by blocking a molecule called TGF-beta. TGFbeta has been shown to promote the growth of pancreatic cancer and this study is examining if the addition of a TGF-beta blocking drug will allow the chemotherapy to work better against the cancer.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will be randomized into two groups of:

* Arm A will receive standard chemotherapy, mFOLFIRINOX, in combination with NIS793.
* Arm B will receive standard chemotherapy, mFOLFIRINOX.

Based on study team determination, some participants may be offered chemoradiation following completion of chemotherapy and/or surgery following either completion of chemotherapy or chemoradiation.

Study treatment is expected to last up to 16 weeks unless disease symptom worsens .

It is expected that about 45 people will take part in this research study.