Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Recurrent Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well vaccine therapy works in treating patients with recurrent prostate cancer. Vaccines made from peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: PSA:154-163(155L) peptide vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: incomplete Freund's adjuvant|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Change in frequency of CD8 T-lymphocyte precursors in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), measured by ELISPOT assays, A response is defined as at least a 5 fold higher frequency of INF-gamma secreting CD8 T cells after vaccination than before. A patient also will be considered a responder if no specific PSA: 154-163(155L) response was found before vaccination and a specific PSA: 154-163(155L) response is identified after vaccination., From baseline to 1 week after the last dose of study treatment
Effect of treatment on serum prostate-specific antigen level, The PSA reduction is defined as is at least 50% fall in the serum PSA level after vaccination. The proportion of patients who showed a reduction in serum PSA will be estimated and corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment|Incidence of adverse events graded according to NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Up to 4 weeks after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the T-lymphocyte immune response in patients with recurrent adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) peptide vaccine (PSA-3A; PSA: 154-163 \[155L\]) emulsified in Montanide ISA-51.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the toxicity of this vaccine in these patients. II. Determine the effect of this vaccine on serum PSA level in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

Patients receive prostate-specific antigen (PSA) peptide vaccine (PSA-3A; PSA: 154-163 \[155L\]) emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 subcutaneously once in weeks 0, 2, 4, 6, 10, 14, and 18 in the absence of disease progression\* or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*A rise in PSA alone is not considered disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 and 4 weeks.