Vaccine Therapy in Combination With Rintatolimod and/or Sargramostim in Treating Patients With Stage II-IV HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
This randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of rintatolimod when given together with vaccine therapy and sargramostim (GM-CSF) to see how well it works in treating patients with stage II-IV human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer. Vaccines made from synthetic HER2/neu peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells that express HER-2/neu. Adjuvant therapies, such as GM-CSF and rintatolimod, are additional cancer treatments given after the primary treatment to lower the risk that the cancer will come back and are one way to help vaccines produce stronger immune responses. Giving vaccine therapy together with rintatolimod and/or GM-CSF may be a safe and effective treatment for breast cancer.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: HER-2/neu peptide vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|DRUG: rintatolimod
Evaluation of immune response among the different treatment arms in Stage I and II, Standard interferon (IFN)-gamma enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assay will be used to evaluate CD4+ 1 T cell responses to HER2 immunizing peptides., Up to 12 months post-vaccination|Evaluation of safety and systemic toxicity among the different treatment arms in Stage I and II, Toxicity grading will be evaluated per Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 and monitoring of adverse events (AEs) will be done per Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and National Cancer Institute (NCI) guidelines., Up to 4 months
Disease-free survival, Though not statistically powered to this endpoint, large differences if observed between the vaccine treatment groups will be noted and described., Time from study enrollment to time of first event, assessed up to 12 months post-vaccination|Overall survival, Though not statistically powered to this endpoint, large differences if observed between the vaccine treatment groups will be noted and described., Time from study enrollment to time of first event, assessed up to 12 months post-vaccination
OBJECTIVES:

I. To choose the most promising (maximum biologic dose \[MBD\]) of five different doses (4, 20, 79, 495 and 2000 mcg) of Ampligen (rintatolimod) administered intradermally (i.d.) as an adjuvant with HER2 vaccination, with respect to toxicity and incidence and magnitude of immune response.

II. To determine, using MBD of Ampligen (defined in first primary aim), whether Ampligen when given with GM-CSF as a combined adjuvant strategy with HER2 vaccination increases both the incidence and magnitude of HER2 Th1 immunity as compared to the standard GM-CSF adjuvant strategy.

OUTLINE: This will be a phase I-II randomized two-stage HER2 vaccine study in breast cancer patients.

STUDY STAGE I: There are five groups of patients randomized to 1 of 5 arms with each arm receiving the synthetic HER-2/neu peptide vaccine admixed with rintatolimod (different doses) given i.d.

STUDY STAGE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive the synthetic HER-2/neu peptide vaccine admixed with rintatolimod given i.d.

ARM II: 24 patients will receive the HER-2/neu peptide vaccine admixed with GM-CSF and the other 24 patients will receive the HER-2/neu peptide vaccine admixed with GM-CSF in addition to rintatolimod (dose set by Stage I group that had the most active response) given i.d.

In both study stages, treatment repeats every month for up to 3 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of last vaccine, patients are followed up at 1 and 12 months.