Clinical Study of Neoadjuvant PD-1 Antibody (Toripalimab) Plus Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Thymic Epithelial Tumor
This is a phase II, single-arm, open-label study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant Toripalimab + chemotherapy followed by radical surgery as first-line treatment in patients with locally advanced thymic epithelial tumor.
Thymic Epithelial Tumor
DRUG: Toripalimab + Chemotherapy
Safety: frequency of severe adverse events, The frequency of severe adverse events from the participants enrolling to 30 days after the last drug administration or 30 days after surgery or new anti-cancer therapy, which comes first., up to 5 months|Major pathologic response (MPR), MPR is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved major pathologic response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, tumors with no more than 10% viable tumor cells) in all participants who have completed the neoadjuvant therapy before surgery., up to 4 months
Objective response rate (ORR), It refers to the proportion of patients who have had a complete response or partial response (according to RECIST1.1) as confirmed by CT evaluation after 3 weeks in all patients who have completed the neoadjuvant therapy. Only patients with measurable lesions at baseline will be analyzed., up to 4 months|Disease-free survival (DFS), It refers to the time from radical surgery to relapse or death of a participant due to disease progression. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the latest evaluation date will be used for interpolation (censoring)., up to 60 months|Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date. In the event of a patient with the survival status unknown, the date when the patient is last known to be alive will be used for interpolation (censoring)., up to 60 months|Health related quality of life (HRQol), The assessment is made according to the Quality of Life Scale for Lung Cancer Patients (EORTC-QLQ-C30 \& LC13, Version 3). EORTC's QLQ-C30 \& LC13 (V3.0) is a core scale for lung cancer patients, with a total of 43 items. Among them, Item 29 and 30 are divided into seven grades, which are assigned with 1 to 7 scores according to the answer options. The other items are divided into 4 grades: Not at All, A Little, Quite a Bit, and Very Much, assigned with 1 to 4 scores respectively. The higher score, the worse quality., up to 6 months
This is a phase II, single-arm, open-label study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant Toripalimab + chemotherapy followed by radical surgery as first-line treatment in patients with locally advanced thymic epithelial tumor.