VELCADE®-BEAM and Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, or Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This is a Phase I/II trial designed to study the toxicity and Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of bortezomib in combination with BEAM (carmustine (BCNU), etoposide, cytarabine, melphalan) and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) and to obtain a preliminary estimate of the response rate to this combination.
Non-hodgkin's Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: BEAM (carmustine (BCNU), etoposide, cytarabine, melphalan)
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Bortezomib, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined to be the dose cohort below which 3 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT), or the highest dose cohort of 1.5 mg/m², if 2 DLT were not observed at any dose cohort., 14 months
Preliminary Estimate of Overall Response Rate (ORR), To obtain a preliminary estimate of overall response rate (ORR). The overall response rate is calculated as the number of patients who achieved complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) divided by the total number of evaluable patients., 100 day post autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT), one year post ASCT|Progression-free Survival (PFS), and Overall Survival (OS), To obtain a preliminary estimate of PFS and OS. Overall survival (OS) is defined as time from the first chemotherapy administered on the transplant trial until death from any cause. Progression free survival (PFS)is defined as time from therapy until relapse, progression, or death from any cause., one year post autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) , 5 years post ASCT
Primary Objective:The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the toxicity and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bortezomib when added to a standard BEAM (carmustine (BCNU), etoposide, cytarabine, melphalan) conditioning regimen followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT).

Secondary Objective: The secondary objective of the study is to obtain a preliminary estimate of the overall response rate (ORR), progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) with this regimen.

Enrolled subjects will receive bortezomib in combination with BEAM (carmustine (BCNU), etoposide, cytarabine, melphalan) and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (AHSCT). Phase I treatment will administer bortezomib in four dose cohorts,in addition to the BEAM and ASCT. Three patients will be accrued in each dose cohort with enrollment starting at dose cohort. These subjects will be evaluated to establish the maximum tolerated dose of bortezomib in combination with BEAM autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. Once established, the maximum tolerated dose will be utilized in treating an additional 20 subjects.

Follow-Up: Data collected will be utilized to obtain a preliminary estimate of the overall response rate, progressions free survival and overall survival using this regimen.