Fedratinib in Myelodysplastic /Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MDS/MPNs) and Chronic Neutrophilic Leukemia (CNL)
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness, safety, and tolerability of a study drug called fedratinib in participants with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPNs) and chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL).
Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Chronic Neutrophilic Leukemia|MDS
DRUG: Fedratinib Pill
Objective Clinical Response Rate, Response rate of fedratinib in MDS/MPN and CNL. Investigators will measure the proportion of patients achieving a clinical response from baseline to week 24 as defined by Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Clinical Benefit (CB) by modified MDS/MPN IWG Proposed response criteria., Up to 24 weeks
Proportion of patients achieving spleen response at 12 weeks, Participants spleen size will be measured and compared to baseline spleen size measurement. Spleen response is defined as 50% reduction in palpable splenomegaly of a spleen that is at least 10cm at baseline, a spleen that is palpable at more than 5 cm at baseline becoming non-palpable, or, in cases where volumetric evaluation is feasible, a ≥ 35% reduction in spleen volume in patients with a baseline spleen volume \> 450 cc. Spleen responses by palpation will need to correlate with a 50% reduction in longest diameter of the spleen by imaging., at 12 weeks|Proportion of patients achieving spleen response at 24 weeks, Participants spleen size will be measured and compared to baseline spleen size measurement. Spleen response is defined as 50% reduction in palpable splenomegaly of a spleen that is at least 10cm at baseline, a spleen that is palpable at more than 5 cm at baseline becoming non-palpable, or, in cases where volumetric evaluation is feasible, a ≥ 35% reduction in spleen volume in patients with a baseline spleen volume \> 450 cc. Spleen responses by palpation will need to correlate with a 50% reduction in longest diameter of the spleen by imaging., at 24 weeks|Proportion of patients who have a 50% reduction in Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form total symptom score (MPN-SAF TSS) at 12 weeks, Reduction in MPN-SAF TSS score will be measured by comparing TSS score at day 84 assessment to TSS score on cycle 1 day 1. Only patients with baseline TSS ≥ 10 will be eligible for symptom response. Patients who do not have a TSS score performed at day 84 assessment or who have discontinued study drug prior to day 84 assessment will be considered to not have 50% reduction in TSS.

The MPN-SAF TSS is a questionnaire with nine items containing the most common symptoms reported by patients (concentration, early satiety, inactivity, night sweats, itching, bone pain, abdominal discomfort, weight loss and fever), plus one item ("worst fatigue") from the "Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI)". Each item has a score that ranges from 0 (absent/as good as it can be) to 10 (worst imaginable/as bad as it can be). A higher score therefore indicates more severe symptoms, at 12 weeks|Proportion of patients who have a 50% reduction in Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form total symptom score (MPN-SAF TSS) at 24 weeks, Reduction in MPN-SAF TSS score will be measured by comparing TSS score at day 84 assessment to TSS score on cycle 1 day 1. Only patients with baseline TSS ≥ 10 will be eligible for symptom response. Patients who do not have a TSS score performed at day 84 assessment or who have discontinued study drug prior to day 84 assessment will be considered to not have 50% reduction in TSS.

The MPN-SAF TSS is a questionnaire with nine items containing the most common symptoms reported by patients (concentration, early satiety, inactivity, night sweats, itching, bone pain, abdominal discomfort, weight loss and fever), plus one item ("worst fatigue") from the "Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI)". Each item has a score that ranges from 0 (absent/as good as it can be) to 10 (worst imaginable/as bad as it can be). A higher score therefore indicates more severe symptoms, at 24 weeks
Patient's global impression of change (PGIC) at week 12, Patient's global impression of change will be measured using the validated questionnaire wherein patients are asked about the change in their myelofibrosis symptoms since starting on the study. Patients can choose from one of seven potential answers: Very much improved, Much improved, Minimally improved, No change, Minimally worse, Much worse, Very much worse. This will be reportedly qualitatively wherein the number of patients choosing particular answers will be tabulated and frequencies will be reported., at week 12|Patient's global impression of change (PGIC) at week 24, Patient's global impression of change will be measured using the validated questionnaire wherein patients are asked about the change in their myelofibrosis symptoms since starting on the study. Patients can choose from one of seven potential answers: Very much improved, Much improved, Minimally improved, No change, Minimally worse, Much worse, Very much worse. This will be reportedly qualitatively wherein the number of patients choosing particular answers will be tabulated and frequencies will be reported., at week 24
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the effectiveness, safety, and tolerability of a study drug called fedratinib in participants with myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative neoplasms (MDS/MPNs) and chronic neutrophilic leukemia (CNL).