A Phase II Study of Epstein-Barr Virus-Specific Immunotherapy for Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
The purpose of this research study is to determine how effective and how safe it is to give an Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) immunotherapy product to participants with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) associated with EBV that has come back or spread to other parts of the participant's body. This is phase II study with the aim of establishing a baseline of efficacy.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Epstein-Barr Virus Specific Immunotherapy
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Restaging scans were performed every 8 weeks on treatment up to 20 weeks.
Time to Progression (TTP), TTP estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from registration to documented first observation of progressive disease (PD), or censored at date last known progression-free. Based on RECIST 1.1, radiographic PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) for all target lesions (up to 10), taking as reference the smallest sum LD since beginning treatment or the appearance of one or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing lesions., Restaging scans were performed every 8 weeks until PD. Follow-up duration was up to 92 months.|Number of Participants With Grade 1-2 Fatigue Adverse Events," as Accurate and Appropriate, All grade 1-2 fatigue adverse events (AE) with any treatment attribution as reported on case report forms were counted. The number of participants experiencing at least one grade 1-2 fatigue AE during the time of observation., Adverse events were assessed after each infusion treatment. Treatment duration was up to 66 months.|Overall Survival (OS), OS estimated using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method is defined as the time from registration to death, or censored at the date last known alive., Participants were followed for survival per institutional practice until death or lost-to-follow-up. Follow-up duration was up to 92 months.
The study follows a pilot study optimizing and refining the manufacturing process, streamlining logistics (eg infusion protocol, enrolling out-of-town patients), increasing the cell dose, defining optimal patient eligibility, and improving monitoring for patients. Eligible participants will undergo a blood draw to obtain peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) used for preparation of the immunotherapy product \[estimated time 14-16 weeks\]. Participants' PBMCs will be isolated by density centrifugation from peripheral blood and then infected with EBV to generate EBV-transformed B-lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs). LCLs will be irradiated and then used to stimulate autologous T cells, yielding an EBV-specific, autologous T cell product.