Radioimmunotherapy (111Indium/225Actinium-DOTA-daratumumab) for the Treatment of Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of actinium Ac 225-DOTA-daratumumab (225Ac-DOTA-daratumumab) in combination with daratumumab and indium In 111-DOTA-daratumumab (111In-DOTA-daratumumab) in treating patients with multiple myeloma that does not respond to treatment (refractory) or that has come back (recurrent). Daratumumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. 111In-DOTA-daratumumab and 225Ac-DOTA-daratumumab are forms of radioimmunotherapy in which a monoclonal antibody, daratumumab, has been linked to a radiotracer to allow for targeted delivery of the treatment to cancer cells. Giving all three together may kill more cancer cells.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Actinium Ac 225-DOTA-Daratumumab|BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|BIOLOGICAL: Indium In 111-DOTA-Daratumumab
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI)- Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., During the first 6 weeks post administration of study drug|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Toxicity will be graded according to the NCI-CTCAE version 5.0. The MTD is defined as the dose for which the isotonic estimate of the toxicity rate is closest to the target toxicity rate. The MTD will be based on the assessment of DLT during the first 6 weeks., During the first 6 weeks post administration of study drug
Overall response rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients meeting the criteria for partial response (PR), very good partial response (VGPR), complete response (CR), or stringent complete response (sCR). Disease response will be evaluated per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria., Up to 12 months|Complete response rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients meeting the criteria for CR or sCR., Up to 12 months|12-month overall survival, If a patient is still alive, survival time is censored at the time of last follow-up., Time from first day of treatment to time of death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Progression free survival, If a patient has not progressed or died, progression-free survival is censored at the time of last follow-up. Patients who start a new treatment regimen without documented progression will be censored., Time from first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Time to progression, If failure has not occurred, failure time is censored at the time of last follow-up., Time from first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to disease, assessed up to 12 months|Duration of response, Deaths from causes other than progression will be censored and not included in calculation., In patients with PR or better, time from first response documented until disease progression, assessed up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of 111In/225Ac-DOTA-daratumumab, at each dose level in order to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), which will inform the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the anti-myeloma activity of 225Ac-DOTA-daratumumab as assessed by overall response rate (ORR).

II. To evaluate the organ biodistribution, pharmacokinetics and organ dose estimates of 111In/225Ac-DOTA-daratumumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the activity of 225Ac-DOTA-daratumumab against non-cancer immune cells using the peripheral blood and bone marrow (BM) samples.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation trial of 225Ac-DOTA-daratumumab.

Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) over 45 minutes. Two hours later, patients receive 111In-DOTA-daratumumab and 225Ac-DOTA-daratumumab IV over 20-30 minutes.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up weekly for 8 weeks, every 2 weeks for 4 weeks, every 4 weeks for 16 weeks, and then periodically up to 12 months.