Cancer Within a Pandemic: A Telemental Health Intervention
The purpose of this research study is to test an online support group designed to help young adults who have had cancer treatment to manage their mood during a pandemic. Investigators hope to learn more about what effects a support group may have upon the health and well-being of young adults who have undergone cancer treatment by offering an online support group that teaches healthy coping skills in a practical and acceptable way. Investigators would also like to know if certain parts of the online material is more effective in helping subjects manage their mood.
Cancer|Survivorship|Depression, Anxiety
BEHAVIORAL: Telemental Health Sessions, Support Groups and Questionnaires
Change in Self-Efficacy in Pandemic Conditions, The improvement of self-efficacy for young adult cancer survivors navigating pandemic conditions will be assessed by comparing the change in the Cancer Behaviour Inventory-Brief (CBI-B) version (a 12-item validated questionnaire used widely as a measure of self-efficacy for coping with cancer) from baseline to Visit 8. To test the change over the 8 weeks, a paired t-test (using the baseline and Visit 8 scores within the same patient) will be used; the expected difference in the CBI-B between the two scores would be no change. Score range is 1 (not at all confident) to 9 (totally confident) (minimum score of 12, maximum score of 108). Sum the scores for the 12 items with higher scores indicating greater coping efficacy., At baseline up to 8 weeks
Changes in Depression and Anxiety Levels, Three instruments will provide information on baseline, Visit 8, and change over time.

1) The Coronavirus Anxiety Scale (CAS) - 5-item mental health screener of dysfunctional anxiety associated with the coronavirus. Scoring is on a 5-point scale of 0 (not at all) to 4 (nearly every day). Scores greater than or equal to 9 indicates probable dysfunctional coronavirus-related anxiety. 2) Mini-Mental Adjustments to Cancer - 29-items that measures present experiences using a 4-point Likert scale - ''Definitely does not apply to me'' (1) to ''Definitely apply to me'' (4). Five subscales include: Helpless-Hopeless, Anxious Preoccupation, Cognitive Avoidance, Fighting Spirit and Fatalism), AND 3) Purpose in Life Test - 20-items that measures sense of purpose and meaning in life will be utilized to estimate anxiety levels. Score range 20-100. Scores less than 50 may indicate a lack of meaning or purpose in life. A paired t-test will be used to assess the change in the scores., At baseline up to 10 weeks
Primary Objective: To improve self-efficacy for young adult cancer survivors navigating pandemic conditions.

Secondary Objective: To reduce depression and anxiety levels through meaning-making.