A Randomized Phase 2 Study of Atezolizumab (an Engineered Anti-PDL1 Antibody) Compared With Docetaxel in Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Who Have Failed Platinum Therapy - "POPLAR"
This multicenter, open-label, randomized study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of Atezolizumab compared with docetaxel in participants with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer after platinum failure. Participants will be randomized to receive either Atezolizumab 1200 milligram (mg) intravenously every 3 weeks or docetaxel 75 milligram per meter square (mg/m\^2) intravenously every 3 weeks. Treatment with Atezolizumab may be continued as long as participants are experiencing clinical benefit as assessed by the investigator, i.e., in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or symptomatic deterioration attributed to disease progression.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Atezolizumab
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Data for participants who were not reported as dead at the time of analysis was censored at the date when they were last known to be alive., From the time of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or up to data cut off date: 01 Dec 2015 (up to 28 months)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed objective tumor response, complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as determined by investigator using RECIST v1.1 criteria. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Baseline until date of death due to any cause or up to data cut off date: 01 Dec 2015 (up to 28 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time (in months) between the date of randomization and the date of first documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was determined based on investigator assessment using response evaluation criteria In solid tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Progressive disease (PD): at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions including baseline In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., From the time of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or up to data cut off date: 01 Dec 2015 (up to 28 months)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the duration from the first tumor assessment that supports the participant's objective response (CR or PR, whichever is first recorded) to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., From the time of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or up to data cut off date: 01 Dec 2015 (up to 28 months)|ORR (Modified RECIST), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed objective tumor response, CR or PR, as determined by investigator using modified RECIST criteria. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to l\< 10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From the time of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or up to data cut off date: 08 May 2015 (up to 21 months)|PFS (Modified RECIST), PFS was defined as the time (in months) between the date of randomization and the date of first documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was determined based on investigator assessment using modified RECIST criteria. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., From the time of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or up to data cut off date: 08 May 2015 (up to 21 months)|DOR (Modified RECIST), DOR was defined as the duration from the first tumor assessment that supports the participant's objective response (CR or PR, whichever is first recorded) to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., From the time of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or up to data cut off date: 08 May 2015 (up to 21 months)
This multicenter, open-label, randomized study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of Atezolizumab compared with docetaxel in participants with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer after platinum failure. Participants will be randomized to receive either Atezolizumab 1200 milligram (mg) intravenously every 3 weeks or docetaxel 75 milligram per meter square (mg/m\^2) intravenously every 3 weeks. Treatment with Atezolizumab may be continued as long as participants are experiencing clinical benefit as assessed by the investigator, i.e., in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or symptomatic deterioration attributed to disease progression.