Axitinib Given on an Individualized Schedule for Metastatic Renal Cell Cancer
Axitinib is a drug which is approved by the FDA for patients with advanced kidney cancer who have already received some treatment. It works by reducing blood flow to a tumor. Axitinib is normally give at 5mg twice per day and sometimes this dose is increased if patients tolerate it. The purpose of this study is to figure out a different way to decide which dose of axitinib each patient should receive based on the side effects they experience.
Metastatic Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: Axitinib
Median Progression-free Survival, The primary endpoint of progression-free survival in months (per per RECIST v1.1 criteria) will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Summary statistics will be provided along with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 18 months
Patients With Complete Response, Tumor Response, defined as overall confirmed objective response, is confirmed complete response (CR) according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria. RECIST 1.1: Complete response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm., Up to 4 months of treatment and approximately 1 year of follow-up|Patients With Partial Response, Tumor Response, defined as overall confirmed objective response, is confirmed complete response (CR) according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria. RECIST 1.1: Partial response (PR) is defined as a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum longest dimensions., Up to 4 months of treatment and approximately 1 year of follow-up|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR as defined by Recist V. 1.1. ORR = (CR + PR), Up to 4 months of treatment and approximately 1 year of follow-up
Primary objective To determine whether axitinib given on an individualized dose/schedule for metastatic renal cell carcinoma following immunotherapy with PD-1 and PD-L1 Inhibitors leads to improved progression-free survival (PFS).

Secondary objectives:

1. To characterize the objective response rates in patients given axitinib on an individualized dose/schedule.
2. To evaluate the tolerability and safety of an alternative method of axitinib titration.
3. To characterize the anti-tumor effect, as measured by change in tumor burden per RECIST 1.1, of axitinib titration performed after initial RECIST PD on axitinib.