Sirolimus/Tacrolimus Versus Tacrolimus/Methotrexate for Preventing Graft-Versus-Host Disease (GVHD) (BMT CTN 0402)
The study is designed as a phase III, randomized, open label, multicenter, prospective, comparative trial of sirolimus and tacrolimus versus tacrolimus and methotrexate as graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis after human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched, related, peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in individuals with hematologic cancer. Participants will be stratified by transplant center and will be randomly assigned to the sirolimus/tacrolimus or tacrolimus/methotrexate arms at a 1:1 ratio.
Leukemia, Myelocytic, Acute|Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Acute|Leukemia, Myeloid, Chronic|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Sirolimus
Rate of Grades II-IV Acute GVHD-free Survival, The primary objective is to compare rates of 114-day Grades II-IV acute GVHD-free survival post randomization for HLA-matched, related donor allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation using two different GVHD prophylaxis regimens. Participants are graded on a scale of 1 to 4 according to their symptoms and organs involved, where 4 represents a worse grade., Day 114
Incidence of Acute GVHD, Cumulative incidence of acute GVHD (grade II-IV) occurring 100 days from transplantation., Measured at Day 100|Time to Neutrophil and Platelet Engraftment, Neutrophil engraftment is defined as achieving an Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) \> 500/mcL for three consecutive measurements on different days. Platelet engraftment is defined as a platelet count \> 20,000/mcL for three consecutive measurements over three or more days., Measured through Day 100|Mucositis Severity, Mucositis severity will be scored per the modified Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS) scoring system on a scale of 0 - 4, where 0 equals normal mucosa and 4 represents severe mucosa., Measured at Day 21|Rate of Veno-occlusive Disease (VOD), VOD will be defined as the occurrence of VOD (based on the Baltimore Criteria for the diagnosis of VOD) in conjunction with other end-organ dysfunction., Measured through Day 100|Thrombotic Microangiopathy (TMA) Infection, The occurrence of TMA within the first 100 days after stem cell transplantation will be recorded. The first day of onset will be used for reporting purposes., Measured through Day 100|Reactivation of Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Infection, Measured at Year 2|Treatment-related Mortality, Measured at Day 100 and Year 2|Malignant Disease Relapse, Testing for recurrent malignancy in the blood, marrow or other sites will be used to assess relapse after transplantation. For the purpose of this study, relapse is defined by either morphological or cytogenetic evidence of AML, ALL, CML, MDS or CMML consistent with pre-transplant features., Measured at Year 2|Overall Survival, Measured at Year 2|Infections, Measured at Year 2|Time to Discharge After Transplant, Measured at Year 2
BACKGROUND:

Stem cell transplantation is a standard therapy for acute and chronic leukemias and myelodysplastic disorders. A common problem that may occur after a stem cell transplant is a condition known as GVHD. The purpose of this study is to compare two combinations of medications to see which is better at preventing GVHD. The combinations of medications in this study are:

* Sirolimus and tacrolimus
* Methotrexate and tacrolimus

Doctors want to know if one combination is better than the other or if they both have the same result.

DESIGN NARRATIVE:

Participants will receive one of the two conditioning regimens described in the protocol, at the discretion of the transplant physician. The transplant physician must choose among these regimens prior to the participant's assignment to the GVHD prophylaxis treatment. Conditioning regimens will vary by center, but will be the same for all participants at each center. Stem cell donors will donate peripheral blood stem cells according to local institutional practices. Peripheral blood stem cells will not be manipulated or T-depleted prior to administration. Standard post-transplant care will be administered. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two GVHD prophylaxis regimens and will be followed for the endpoints of interest.

Participants will be followed for 114 days post-randomization for evaluation of the primary endpoint, with additional follow-up for 2 years after transplantation for evaluation of secondary endpoints.