PD-1 Blockade and Bevacizumab Replace Cisplatin in Locoregionally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
At present, the treatment regimen of locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma still needs to be further improved, and the focus of improvement lies in "replacing cisplatin with high-efficiency and low-toxicity treatment regimen". Considering the synergistic effect among radiotherapy, immunotherapy and anti-angiogenesis therapy, we chose PD-1 inhibitor combined with bevacizumab to replace cisplatin chemotherapy.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab+Toripalimab+gemcitabine, adjuvant with Bevacizumab and Toripalimab|DRUG: Bevacizumab+Toripalimab+gemcitabine, adjuvant with Toripalimab
grade ≥3 nasopharyngeal necrosis or hemorrhage, Incidence of nasopharyngeal necrosis or massive hemorrhage (grade ≥3).

Grade ≥3 hemorrhage: Grade 3, Transfusion indicated; invasive intervention indicated; hospitalization. Grade 4, Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated (e.g., tracheotomy or intubation). Grade 5, death.

Grade ≥3 nasopharyngeal necrosis: Grade 3, Severe pain; unable to adequately aliment or hydrate orally; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4, Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated.

Grade 5, death., At the end of each cycle (each cycle is 21 days)
Objective response rate, The proportion of patients whose tumors shrink to a certain size and maintain such size for a certain period of time, including patients with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR)., 3 weeks after indution therapy; 3 months after concurrent therapy|Progression-free survival, Progress-free survival is calculated from the date of enrollment to the date of the first progression at any site or death from any cause or censored at the date of the last follow-up., 3 year|Overall survival, Overall survival is calculated from the date of enrollment to the date of the death from any cause or censored at the date of the last follow-up., 3 year|Locoregional failure-free survival (LRRFS), Defined as the time from registration to local or regional relapse, or death from any cause., 3 year|Distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), Defined as the time from registration to distant metastasis, or death from any cause., 3 year|Incidence rate of adverse events (AEs), Analysis of acute and late adverse events (AEs) are evaluated. Numbers of patients of treatment-related adverse events (acute toxicity) and late radiation toxicities were assessed by CTCAE v5.0., 3 year
We plan to use PD-1 inhibitor combined with bevacizumab to replace cisplatin (induction + concurrent ± adjuvant) in patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Considering the safety of the original study, we will set up two groups for the adjuvant treatment stage: one group will only use PD-1 inhibitor at the adjuvant treatment stage (low risk group), and the other group will use bevacizumab +PD-1 inhibitor combined treatment (high risk group). Once the efficacy and safety of this protocol are confirmed, it may provide a new treatment option for locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma.