Temsirolimus in Treating Patients With Refractory or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well temsirolimus works in treating patients with refractory or recurrent ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer. Temsirolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
DRUG: temsirolimus
6 Month Progression-free Survival (PFS), Number of participants who survived progression-free for more than 6 months., 6 months|Objective Tumor Response Based on the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria, Number of participants who experienced an objective tumor response up to 5 years. Per RECIST version 1.0 criteria: each target lesion must be \>= 20 mm when measured by conventional techniques, including palpation, plain x-ray, CT, and MRI, or \>= 10 mm when measured by spiral CT. Complete Response is a disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Partial Response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. Increasing Disease is at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of target lesions, taking as references the smallest sum LD or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 5 years|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events as Assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0), Up to 5 years
Duration of Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months up to 5 years|Duration of Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., Every cycle during treatment, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually for the next 5 years.
Reason Off Study Therapy, from study entry until end of study treatment|Patient Vital Status, Patients alive or dead after 24 months from time of study entry, Study entry up to 2 years
OBJECTIVES: Primary I. Determine the 6-month progression-free survival (PFS) or objective tumor response in patients with refractory or recurrent ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cavity cancer treated with temsirolimus.

II. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

Secondary I. Determine the duration of PFS and overall survival of these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, multicenter study.

Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 52 patients will be accrued for this study.