Standardization of D2 Lymphadenectomy and Surgical Quality Control: KLASS-02-QC
Gastric cancer is one of the most common cancers in Korea. Having achieved excellent long-term survival for early gastric cancer patients, there is a growing interest in improving the quality of life of these patients without compromising their prognosis. Laparoscopic surgery for early gastric cancer have been found to be safe and feasible with superior short-term outcomes. Although laparoscopic gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy is being performed for patients with locally advanced gastric cancer; the completeness of the D2 lymphadenectomy during laparoscopic surgery has not been evaluate and no standardized procedure exists. To conduct a clinical trial comparing laparoscopic D2 lymphadenectomy to the open approach, quality control of D2 lymphadenectomy procedure is necessary.
Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic distal gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy
Evaluation of operative procedure according to predetermined criteria, 1. Video recording during the operation
2. Peer reviewer's evaluation according to predetermined criteria
3. Final approval by review committee

Predetermined criteria: exact dissection of lymph node (LN) station satisfying each requirements (omentum, LN1, LN3, LN4sb, LN4d, LN5, LN6, LN7, LN8a, LN9, LN11p and LN12a), 6 months
Gastric cancer is one of the most common cancers in Korea. Having achieved excellent long-term survival for early gastric cancer patients, there is a growing interest in improving the quality of life of these patients without compromising their prognosis. Laparoscopic surgery for early gastric cancer have been found to be safe and feasible with superior short-term outcomes. Although laparoscopic gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy is being performed for patients with locally advanced gastric cancer; the completeness of the D2 lymphadenectomy during laparoscopic surgery has not been evaluate and no standardized procedure exists. To conduct a clinical trial comparing laparoscopic D2 lymphadenectomy to the open approach, quality control of D2 lymphadenectomy procedure is necessary.