FLOT Combined With PD-1 in the First-line Treatment of Patients With Advanced Gastric Cancer and Peritoneal Metastasis
In this study, patients with advanced gastric adenocarcinoma whose peritoneal metastasis and peritoneal nodule pathologically confirmed metastasis and/or exfoliative cytology were confirmed as the clinical stage of peritoneal metastasis, who had not received treatment before, were invited to participate in the study.To evaluate the surgical conversion rate and tumor regression grade (TRG grade) of patients with stage gastric cancer with peritoneal metastasis using docetaxel, oxaliplatin, fluorouracil (FLOT regimen) combined with teriprizumab (PD-1).
Chemotherapy|Gastric Cancer
DRUG: FLOT(Docetaxel+oxaliplatin+leucovorin+5-FU), Treprizumab, Tiggio capsule (S-1)
Surgical conversion rate, defined as the proportion of patients who have undergone R0 surgical resection after multidisciplinary assessment after completing 4 courses of conversion adjuvant therapy, 2-3 months|TRG grade, tumor regression grade, 2-3 months
PFS, Progression-free survival, 1 year|OS, overall survival, 1 year|the incidence and severity of adverse events, the incidence and severity of adverse events, 1 year
The study drugs in this study are docetaxel, oxaliplatin, 5-FU, leucovorin, tigio capsules and teriprizumab.

Dosage and dosing regimen for all research phases:

The enrolled patients will receive 4 cycles of FLOT regimen + teriprizumab treatment before surgery, and every 2 weeks is a treatment cycle (Q2W). The specific plan is as follows.

* FLOT: Docetaxel 50mg/m2 ivd d1 + oxaliplatin 85mg/m2 ivd d1 + leucovorin 200mg/m2 ivd d1 + 5-FU 2600mg/m2 civ 24h Q2W
* Treprizumab 3mg/kg, intravenously administered on the first day of each cycle, Q2W If the transformation is successful, the patient undergoes R0 surgical resection of D2 lymph node dissection for gastric cancer in accordance with the "Japanese Gastric Cancer Treatment Guidelines. Physician's Edition. 4th Edition". After the operation, the patient will continue to receive 4 cycles of FLOT treatment + Teripril Anti-treatment, the treatment plan is the same as before.

After completing the 4 cycles of treatment, oral Tiggio Capsule (S-1) and Teriprizumab were maintained for 1 year. The specific plan is as follows.

* Tiggio capsule (S-1) 40-60mg (BSA\<1.25 m2: 40mg, 1.25 m2≤BSA≤1.5 m2: 50mg, BSA\> 1.5 m2: 60mg) po bid d1-14 Q3W, continuous treatment for 1 year;
* Teriprizumab 240mg, intravenously, given on the first day of each cycle, Q3W, continuous treatment for 1 year.