Efficacy & Safety Evaluation of Enobosarm in Combo With Abemaciclib in Treatment of ER+HER2- Metastatic Breast Cancer
STAGE 1: To determine the safety of enobosarm 9 milligram (mg) once daily (QD) used in combination with a CDK 4/6 inhibitor \[Verzenio® (abemaciclib) tablets, for oral use, 150 mg twice daily (BID)\].

STAGE 2: To demonstrate the efficacy and safety of enobosarm 9 mg QD in combination with abemaciclib 150 mg BID (Enobosarm Combination Group) versus Estrogen Blocking Agent (Control Treatment Group) in the treatment of estrogen receptor positive (ER+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 negative (HER2-), androgen receptor positive (AR+) with a AR% nuclei staining ≥40% metastatic breast cancer that have previously experienced disease progression on an estrogen blocking agent plus (palbociclib) as measured by progression free survival (PFS) according to RECIST 1.1 criteria.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Enobosarm & Abemaciclib Combo|DRUG: non-steroidal AI, or steroidal AI (exemestane with or without everolimus) or Fulvestrant
Primary endpoint for the study is the median progression free survival (PFS) in the Enobosarm Combination Group compared to the Control Treatment Group in patients with AR% nuclei staining ≥40%. Progression will be defined based on RECIST 1.1 criteria, STAGE 1: To determine the safety of enobosarm 9 mg once daily (QD) used in combination with abemaciclib tablets, for oral use, 150 mg twice daily (BID)\].

STAGE 2: To demonstrate the efficacy of enobosarm in combination with abemaciclib (Enobosarm Combination Group) versus an estrogen blocking agent, (non-steroidal AI, steroidal AI (exemestane with or without everolimus) or fulvestrant Control Treatment Group) in the treatment of AR+ER+HER2 (AR% nuclei staining ≥40%) metastatic breast cancer as measured by PFS according to RECIST 1.1., Day 1 to Day 300
Objective Response Rate (ORR), proportion of subjects with a best tumor response of ORR (partial response [PR] or complete response [CR]) on study, Objective Response Rate (ORR), proportion of subjects with a best tumor response of ORR (partial response \[PR\] or complete response \[CR\]) on study, Day 1 to Day 300
STAGE 1: This is an open-label safety study of enobosarm 9 mg QD coadministered with a CDK 4/6 inhibitor (abemaciclib), 150 mg BID.

STAGE 2: This study is a multicenter, randomized, open-label, two treatment arm, efficacy and safety study. Subjects will be randomized to the two treatment arms (Enobosarm Combination Group versus Control Treatment Group) in a 1:1 fashion. The determination of the treatment to be used in the control arm will be declared prior to randomization.

If first line of therapy for metastatic breast cancer was a non-steroidal AI plus palbociclib, then the patient will be randomized to either enobosarm + abemaciclib OR fulvestrant.

If first line of therapy for metastatic breast cancer was fulvestrant plus palbociclib, then the patient will be randomized to either enobosarm + abemaciclib OR AI (steroidal or non-steroidal). If the patient is randomized to the Control Treatment Group to receive steroidal AI, (exemestane) the patient may receive exemestane with or without everolimus.

The primary efficacy endpoint of the study will be the median PFS as defined by RECIST 1.1.

Subjects will continue study treatment until disease progression confirmed by blinded independent central reader (BICR) is observed. A safety follow up visit will occur approximately 30 days after last dose of study drug.

Long term survival follow up - every 30 days after last dose of study drug for 1 year and then every 90 days thereafter.