Biobank for African American Prostate Cancer Research in Florida
The purposes of this study are: a) to develop a statewide Biobank for prostate cancer among men of African Ancestry in Florida and; b) to examine whether smoking increases the aggressiveness of prostate cancer using several biological approaches.

Investigators plan to contact African American prostate cancer patients regarding participation. This project has 3 main components. Eligible patients may choose to participate in any or all parts of the study: Questionnaires; Saliva Samples; Tumor Tissue.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Questionnaires|OTHER: Saliva Samples|OTHER: Tumor Tissue
Number of Complete Patient Data Records Collected at Three Years, The study timeline is up to 3 years to collect detailed patients' data, outcome information and bio-specimens from men of African Ancestry with prostate cancer (n=6,000), diagnosed between January 2013 and December 2015., Up to 3 years
Rate of Impact of Smoking in Prostate Cancer Aggressiveness - All Participants, Rate of prostate aggressiveness according to the smoking status (never, former, current cigarette smoker, pipe/cigar smoker only) at the time of diagnosis. This smoking status can be dichotomized into current smoker and non-smoker., Up to 3 years|Rate of Impact of Smoking in Prostate Cancer Aggressiveness - Current Smokers, Current smokers further will be classified according to the Pack-year which will be obtained from questionnaire., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants with Genetic Markers for Smoking Aggressiveness, Occurrence of genetic changes associated with smoking and aggressiveness in prostate tumor samples. Investigators selected \~200 mutations identified in 12 prostate-cancer related genes (AR, ETS, TP53, PTEN, APC, BRAF, BRCA2, ATM, KRAS, SPOP, ERG and EGFR) based upon preliminary study and literature search. Investigators will perform mutation detection on randomly selected 200 patients and determine their association with aggressiveness and smoking., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants with Epigenetic Markers for Smoking Aggressiveness, Occurrence of epigenetic changes associated with smoking and aggressiveness in prostate tumor samples. A customized panel of 384 CpG sites will be profiled. 384 candidate CpG sites were selected from 149 sites including 18 multiple differentially methylated regions (DMRs) identified in the preliminary study, 235 sites from previous literatures. Investigators will determine their association with aggressiveness and smoking., Up to 3 years
This project will create the first state-wide data and biospecimen bank for men of African ancestry with prostate cancer. The sampling strategy and size of the study population ensure that the cohorts is representative, enhancing validity of studies based on this resource. In addition, there are no data on the role of smoking in African American prostate cancer. The approach to share the resource with Florida prostate cancer researchers is innovative and possible because the four annual prostate cancer symposiums organized by Moffitt has unified many Florida prostate cancer researchers who are now well connected and actively collaborating, as evidenced by publications and funded projects among participants.