Nivolumab, Carboplatin, and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma That Can Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well nivolumab, carboplatin, and paclitaxel work in treating patients with stage III-IV head and neck squamous cell carcinoma that can be removed by surgery. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving nivolumab, carboplatin, and paclitaxel may work better in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Name Human Papillomavirus Positive Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Pathologic Complete Response Rate, The primary objective of the study is to estimate the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) at the primary site, defined as the absence of any residual invasive cancer on H\&E evaluation of the resected specimen and all sampled ipsilateral lymph nodes, in patients with newly diagnosed and untreated Stage III-IVA SCCHN of the oral cavity, Oropharynx, Larynx, and Hypopharynx treated with standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus Nivolumab, paclitaxel, and carboplatin. Pathologic complete response rate and its associated score 95% confidence interval will be estimated., Up to 26 months
Number of Patients Who Achieved Major Pathologic Response (Defined as 10% or Less Residual Viable Tumor), patients achieved the major pathologic response (i.e., \<10% viable tumor) or pathologic complete response, Up to 26 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate pathologic complete response (pCR) at the primary site in patients with newly diagnosed and untreated stage III-IVA squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) of the oral cavity, oropharynx, larynx, and hypopharynx with nivolumab, paclitaxel and carboplatin in addition to standard chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Safety. II. Complete pathologic response at all sites of disease. III. Major pathologic response rate at primary site. IV. Overall clinical response rate. V. Clinical complete response rate. VI. 1 year progression-free survival (PFS). VII. Overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore whether PDL1 expression is associated with treatment response. II. To explore whether there is a net change in the Th1/Th2 ratio (IFN-gamma, IL-4, IL10, etc.) or cell subset frequencies (M2 monocytes, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, etc.) within a patient's peripheral blood either at baseline or in response to treatment is associated with treatment response.

III. To explore whether exosomes or other immune related serum biomarkers change after combination therapy.

IV. To explore the predictive value of serial cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) levels and response.