Testing a Combination of Vaccines for Cancer Prevention in Lynch Syndrome
This phase IIb trial tests whether Tri-Ad5 in combination with N-803 works to prevent colon and other cancers in participants with Lynch syndrome. Each of the three injections in Tri-Ad5 vaccine contain a different substance that is in precancer and cancer cells. Injecting these substances may cause the immune system to develop a defense against cancer that recognizes and destroys any precancer and cancer cells that produce these proteins in the future. N-803 may increase immune responses to other vaccines. Giving Tri-Ad5 in combination with immune enhancing N-803 may lower the chance of developing colon and other cancers in participants with Lynch syndrome.
Colorectal Carcinoma|Colorectal Neoplasm|Lynch Syndrome
BIOLOGICAL: Adenovirus 5 CEA/MUC1/Brachyury Vaccine Tri-Ad5|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Colonoscopy|DRUG: Nogapendekin Alfa|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Cumulative incidence rate of the composite endpoint of adenomas (tubular, tubulovillous and serrated), advanced adenomas and colon cancer, Will be compared between the two arms using a stratified Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test where the randomization stratification factors will be included as strata. The cumulative events rates will be reported for each study arm along with the corresponding two-sided 95% confidence intervals., At 104 weeks
Incidence of adverse events, Identify the adverse events using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 104 weeks|Association of clinical factors with immune responses, Will be evaluated by conducting univariate and multivariate binary regression analyses. These analyses will be conducted for both arms combined (in which case arm is included as a stratification factor in the model) and each arm separately. The proportions of cells within adenomas expressing stem cells markers pre- and post-vaccination will be compared within each study arm using the signed rank test, and within-subject changes will be compared between responders and non-responders using Wilcoxon rank-sum test for each arm separately and both arms combined. Comparisons between study arms will be conducted using a Wilcoxon rank-sum test., At 104 weeks|Incidence of extracolonic neoplasms, Will compare the observed incidences of lynch syndrome (LS)-related extracolonic cancers to historical control incidence of LS-related extracolonic cancers in this patient population. We will collect the information about extracolonic cancers by asking the participants and by reviewing the pathology reports for confirmation., At 104 weeks|Participants' behavior and experience, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the results., At baseline, 12 weeks and 52 weeks
T cell responses (cell-mediated immunity), Will be log-transformed before conducting any analyses. Comparisons of number of antigen-specific T-cells, PBMCs, serum soluble factors and antibodies between study arms will be conducted using a nonparametric Wilcoxon rank sum test. IgG titers that will be measured serially will be analyzed and compared between the two arms using linear mixed effects models. If zero-inflation is detected, generalized linear mixed models with zero-inflated Poisson or negative binomial distributions will be fitted., At baseline, 12 weeks, and 56 weeks|Circulating anti-MUC1 IgG (antibody-mediated immunity), Will be reported using repeated measures techniques. We will also compare pre- and post-vaccination size, number and histology of polyps., At baseline, 52 weeks, and 104 weeks|Differential expression analyses, Will be using Bioconductor R package DESeq2. A paired sample design to compare post- to pre-vaccination samples within each study arm and for both arms combined. Significant genes with Benjamini-Hochberg-adjusted p-value =\< 0.05 and absolute value of log2-fold change \>= 0.5 will be annotated with pathways of interest in volcano plots., At baseline, 52 weeks, and 104 weeks|Immune cell gene enrichment analysis, Will be calculated using raw read counts with Bioconductor R package GSVA., At baseline, 52 weeks, and 104 weeks|Immune subsets of peripheral blood mononuclear cell and serum soluble factors and cytokine, Will be calculated using raw read counts with Bioconductor R package GSVA., At baseline, 52 weeks, and 104 weeks|Expression of stem cell markers, Will be calculated using raw read counts with Bioconductor R package GSVA., At baseline, 52 weeks, and 104 weeks|Number of mismatch repair deficient (MMR)-deficient crypts, Will compare both overall and on a per patient basis. For patients with germline MMR variants and a known cancer history, MMR immunohistochemistry (IHC) will be performed based on the abnormal results in the patient's carcinoma and the germline MMR variant identified. For Lynch syndrome patients with no cancer history, IHC will be performed based on the affected MMR gene. Loss of MMR expression in non-neoplastic colonic crypts will be defined as complete absence of nuclear staining within the crypt epithelial cells within the crypt bases with concurrent nuclear expression in adjacent neighboring crypts, stromal cells, and lymphocytes. The number of crypt bases with loss of protein expression, if any, will be recorded. MMR protein-deficient non-neoplastic crypts will be further categorized based on the number of crypts exhibiting loss of protein expression. Single, isolated crypts with loss of MMR protein expression will be classified as solitary., At baseline and 1 year post-vaccination colonoscopy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate if the combination of trivalent adenovirus-5 (Tri-Ad5) vaccines and IL-15 superagonist nogapendekin alfa inbakicept (N-803) reduces the incidence of colorectal neoplasms in patients with Lynch syndrome (LS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the Tri-Ad5 vaccines + N-803 in combination.

II. To correlate clinical factors such as use of aspirin and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID), smoking and alcohol intake with immune responses.

III. To evaluate the effect of Tri-Ad5 vaccines on the incidence of LS-related extracolonic cancers.

IV. To systematically measure the participants' behavior and experience in terms of vaccine uptake, cancer-specific distress and quality of life.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the ability of the Tri-Ad5 vaccines + N-803 to generate a 2-fold increase in T cell responses (cell-mediated immunity) at week 12 (early immune response) and at week 56 (long-term memory response).

II. To evaluate circulating anti-MUC1 IgG (antibody-mediated immunity) after Tri-Ad5 vaccines + N-803.

III. To compare the expression of the three tumor associated antigen (TAAs): MUC1, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and brachyury in colorectal neoplasms before and after Tri-Ad5 vaccines + N-803.

IV. To evaluate changes in the immune profile and abundance of resident immune cell types in colonic mucosa after vaccination with Tri-Ad5 vaccines + N-803 using messenger ribonucleic acid sequencing (mRNAseq) and immunohistochemistry (IHC).

V. To test the effects of the vaccines alone or in combination with N-803 on specific immune subsets of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and serum soluble factors and cytokines.

VI. To compare the expression of stem cell markers in colorectal neoplasms before and after Tri-Ad5 vaccines + N-803.

VII. To compare the number of mismatch repair deficient (MMR-deficient) crypts at baseline to the number of MMR-deficient crypts at the one year post-vaccination colonoscopy both overall and on a per patient basis.

OUTLINE:

SAFETY PHASE I: Participants receive Tri-Ad5 subcutaneously (SC) at weeks 0, 4, 8, and 52. Participants also undergo standard of care (SOC) colonoscopy with biopsy at baseline, at 52 weeks and 104 weeks.

SAFETY PHASE II: Participants receive Tri-Ad5 SC and N-803 SC at weeks 0, 4, 8, and 52. Participants also undergo SOC colonoscopy with biopsy at baseline, 52 weeks and 104 weeks.

RANDOMIZED CONTROL PHASE: Participants are randomized into 1 of two arms.

ARM I: Participants receive Tri-Ad5 SC and N-803 SC at weeks 0, 4, 8, and 52. Participants also undergo SOC colonoscopy with biopsy at baseline and at 52 and 104 weeks.

ARM II: Participants receive placebo SC at weeks 0, 4, 8, and 52. Participants also undergo SOC colonoscopy with biopsy at baseline and at 52 and 104 weeks.

Participants undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.