Paclitaxel, Polyglutamate Paclitaxel, or Observation in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial, Peritoneal Cancer, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies paclitaxel to see how well it works compared to polyglutamate paclitaxel or observation only in treating patients with stage III or stage IV ovarian epithelial, peritoneal cancer, or fallopian tube cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel and polyglutamate paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Paclitaxel and polyglutamate paclitaxel may also stop the growth of ovarian epithelial or peritoneal cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Sometimes, after treatment, the tumor may not need additional treatment until it progresses. In this case, observation may be sufficient. It is not yet known whether paclitaxel is more effective than polyglutamate paclitaxel or observation only in treating ovarian epithelial, peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer.
Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIIA Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIB Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIC Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7
OTHER: Clinical Observation|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel Poliglumex|PROCEDURE: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and death from any cause. Patients still alive at the last follow-up were censored on the date of last contact., All patients were followed (with physical exams and histories) every three months for the first two years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually for the next five years.
Progression-free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and the date of first clinical, biochemical, or radiological evidence of progression or death due to any cause. Patients who were alive without progression at the time of analysis were censored on the date of the last tumor assessment., Progression was assessed every 8 weeks for the first 15 months, then every 3 months, up to 14.2 years.|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Effects Assessed by CTCAE v3.0, Number of treated patients with Adverse Events (grade 3 or higher) observed while receiving randomized therapy among adverse event terms with at least 4 patients reporting., Measured within 6 months of enrollment; through all cycles of chemotherapy and up to 30 days after the last cycle of chemotherapy. Up to 10 cycles of chemotherapy were allowed. Cycles were to be repeated every 3 weeks.|Patient-Reported Quality of Life (QOL), Patient reported quality of life was measured with the Treatment Outcome Index (TOI) of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for ovarian cancer (FACT-O TOI). The FACT-En TOI is a scale for assessing general QOL of ovarian cancer patients. The FACT-O TOI score ranges 0-100 with a large score suggesting better QOL., 1. Prior to treatment 2. Prior to cycle 3 3. Prior to cycle 5 4. Prior to cycle 7 5. Prior to cycle 12 6. 12 months post treatment|Patient-Reported Peripheral Neuropathy Symptoms, Patient reported peripheral neuropathy symptoms was measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/ Gynecologic Oncology Group - neurotoxicity subscale (short version) (FACT/GOG-Ntx subscale). The Ntx score ranges 0-16 with a large score suggesting less peripheral neuropathy symptoms., 1. Prior to treatment 2. Prior to cycle 3 3. Prior to cycle 5 4. Prior to cycle 7 5. Prior to cycle 12 6. 12 months post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether CT-2103 (polyglutamate paclitaxel) or paclitaxel, administered to women with advanced ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer who have attained a clinically-defined complete response to primary platinum/taxane-based chemotherapy ("consolidation/maintenance therapy") will reduce the death rate, compared to re-treatment at the time of documented disease progression.

II. To determine if, in this clinical setting, CT-2103 produces a more favorable toxicity profile (with a particular focus on peripheral neuropathy as measured by the Gynecologic Oncology Group \[GOG\] NTX4) and superior quality-of-life (as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian \[FACT-O\]), compared to paclitaxel.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the relationship between expression of several of the angiogenic markers and overall survival or progression-free survival in patients randomized to CT-2103, paclitaxel, or no treatment.

II. To assess the association among the various tissue and serum markers of angiogenesis, and compare the ability of different combinations of these markers to predict patient outcome including overall survival and progression-free survival in patients randomized to CT-2103, paclitaxel, or no treatment.

III. To bank deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from whole blood for research and evaluate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and measures of clinical outcome including overall survival, progression-free survival and adverse events.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive polyglutamate paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 10-20 minutes on day 1.

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1.

ARM III: Patients receive no further anticancer treatment until evidence of disease progression.

In arms I and II, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 10 years.