Neoadjuvant Imiquimod Immunotherapy for Oral Cancer
The purpose of this research study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, topical application of the drug Aldara will have on patients and on their oral cancer. Aldara is a drug that activates toll-like receptor (TLR) in oral cancer cells causing self-destruction of tumor cells. It also activates immune cells to attack and eliminate cancer cells. Aldara is currently approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of skin cancer and melanoma. Its use in this study is 'off-label' (use of a drug approved by FDA for skin cancer to treat oral cancer in this study).

The preliminary efficacy of topical imiquimod in a neoadjuvant setting in patients with early-stage oral squamous cell carcinoma will be determined by a reduction in tumor cellularity in post-treatment tissue compared to pre-treatment tissue. Safety and tolerability will be evaluated by CTCAE v5 criteria. The effect of imiquimod on the tumor immune microenvironment will be assessed by performing quantitative multiplex immunofluorescence.
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Imiquimod 5% Cream
Number of Participants With 50% Reduction in Tumor Cell Count and Major Pathologic Response, A minimum of 50% reduction in tumor cell count assessed by quantitative multiplex immunofluorescence (qmIF) within the tumor bed of the surgical tissue (post-treatment) compared to the biopsy tissue (pre-treatment). In addition, the major pathologic response to be assessed using Immune-Related Pathologic Response Criteria (irPCR) in the tumor bed of the post-treatment surgical tissue., Following 28 days of treatment
Safety of Imiquimod Therapy, Defined as safe no life-threatening (Grade 4) adverse events assessed by CTCAE v5 criteria., 2 months
Changes in Immune Cell Count, To assess the changes in anti-tumoral immune cell counts from pre- to post-therapy by quantitative multiplex immunofluorescence (normalized cell number per mm\^2 from 6 to 8 regions of interest)., Following 28 days of treatment|RFS Follow-up, One-year relapse-free survival (RFS), 1 year
The researchers propose an exploratory clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy of topical imiquimod, a TLR-7 agonist, in patients with early-stage oral squamous cell carcinoma. The analysis of pre- and post-treatment tumor specimen collected from patients treated on this study will be used for quantitative immunoflourescence analysis to assess the immunomodulatory activity of imiquimod in human tumor samples. The researchers hypothesize that TLR-7 stimulation will reduce the size of the tumor in patients with early-stage oral squamous cell carcinoma. The researchers anticipate that activation of immune cells will correlate with response to therapy.