A Phase II Study of Single-agent DOVitinib in Advanced Malignant PlEural Mesothelioma Which Has Progressed Following Prior Platinum-Antifolate Chemotherapy
This is a single-arm, open label, two stage, phase II study of dovitinib in patients with advanced Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma (MPM). The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the potential efficacy of dovitinib in the second- or third-line treatment of MPM using progression free survival (PFS).
Advanced Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma|MPM
DRUG: Dovitinib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS measured from the time from the first date of treatment with dovitinib until the date of disease progression or date of death or last contact. Assessments every 8 weeks for disease progression for up to 2.5 years.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR using the modified RECIST criteria for MPM. This is defined as the number of patients with a complete or partial response divided by the number of patients who receive at least one dose of dovitinib., Response measured from the time from the first date of treatment with dovitinib. Patients should be re-evaluated for response every 8 weeks for up to 2.5 years|Stable disease rate/disease control rate (ORR + SD), ORR + SD is defined as the number of patients with an objective response or stable disease using the modified RECIST criteria for MPM, divided by the number of patients who receive at least one dose of dovitinib, Stable disease measured from the time from the first date of treatment with dovitinib until the criteria for disease progression are met. Assessments every 8 weeks for disease progression for up to 2.5 years|Duration of response / stable disease, The duration of overall CR measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for CR until the first date that recurrent disease is objectively documented., Duration of overall response measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented. Assessments every 8 weeks for disease progression for up to 2.5 years.|Overall survival (OS), OS measured from the time from the first date of treatment with dovitinib to the date of death or last contact. Patients will be followed up for survival for up to 1 year after disease progression.|Biomarker assessments using tissue and plasma samples, and imaging., Biomarkers analysis will include analysis of archival tissue and plasma sample (wherever safely possible). In addition, pharmacodynamic effects will be measured by diffusion weighted MRI., Archival tissue sample at Baseline; Plasma samples at Baseline, Cycle 1 Week 2, Cycle 2 Week 1, Cycle 3 Week 1; Chest MRI at Baseline and Day 15.|Safety and tolerability, All patients will be evaluated for toxicity. Frequency and severity of adverse events will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest., From the time from the first date of treatment with dovitinib to the date the patient completes the study; patients will be followed up for survival for up to 1 year after disease progression.
This is a single-arm, open label, two stage, phase II study of dovitinib in patients with advanced Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma (MPM). The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the potential efficacy of dovitinib in the second- or third-line treatment of MPM using progression free survival (PFS).