Evaluating the Safety and Efficacy of a Novel Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation Regimen
This study will use an adjuvant radiation therapy regimen called APBI (accelerated partial breast irradiation). APBI is a treatment option available to women considered to have an early stage, low-risk breast cancer. The standard external beam-based APBI treatment delivers treatments every other day for five treatments, over ten calendar days. The APBI in this study is modified and will deliver five once daily treatments over consecutive treatment days, with a slightly lower dose of radiation each day as compared to the standard external beam-based APBI treatment.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: IMRT/VMAT-Based Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation
Physician-Assessed Adverse Breast Cosmesis, To evaluate the incidence of physician-assessed adverse breast cosmesis by utilizing the Harvard Breast Cosmesis survey. The survey scores breast cosmesis from 1 to 4, with 1 representing "excellent" cosmesis, 2 representing "good" cosmesis, 3 representing "fair" cosmesis, and 4 representing "poor" cosmesis. Adverse breast cosmesis is defined as a score of either 3 or 4 on the Harvard Breast Cosmesis survey., 2 Years
Recurrence Rate, To evaluate the cumulative incidence of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence, regional nodal recurrence, and distant recurrence by following participants after treatment with yearly mammograms and breast exams performed during routine clinic appointments., 2 Years|Disease Free Survival Rate, To evaluate disease free survival and overall survival by following participants after treatment with yearly mammograms and breast exams performed during routine clinic appointments., 2 Years|Acute Adverse Events, To evaluate the incidence and severity of acute adverse events associated with our novel IMRT/VMAT-based APBI regimen, using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0 grading system. The CTCAE Version 5.0 grading system scores adverse events from 1 to 5, with higher scores representing more severe adverse events., 12 Weeks|Late Adverse Events, To evaluate the incidence and severity of late adverse events associated with our novel IMRT/VMAT-based APBI regimen, using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0 grading system. The CTCAE Version 5.0 grading system scores adverse events from 1 to 5, with higher scores representing more severe adverse events., 2 Years|Patient Quality of Life, To evaluate patient quality of life associated with our novel IMRT/VMAT-based APBI regimen by using the breast cancer treatment outcome scale (BCTOS). The BCTOS contains 22 items, which are assigned to three internally consistent subscales: 1) Functional Status, 2) Aesthetic Status, and 3) Breast Sensitivity Status. Patients are instructed to rate each item of the BCTOS on a four-point scale evaluating the differences between the treated and the untreated breast (1 = no difference, 4 = large difference). The score for each subscale is the mean of the ratings over all items belonging to that subscale. A higher score reflects a poorer status (i.e. a larger difference between the treated and the untreated breast). The survey also allows patients to address their satisfaction with their breast cancer treatment and results., 2 Years|Patient-Assessed Adverse Breast Cosmesis, To evaluate the incidence of patient-assessed adverse breast cosmesis by utilizing the Harvard Breast Cosmesis survey. The survey scores breast cosmesis from 1 to 4, with 1 representing "excellent" cosmesis, 2 representing "good" cosmesis, 3 representing "fair" cosmesis, and 4 representing "poor" cosmesis. Adverse breast cosmesis is defined as a score of either 3 or 4 on the Harvard Breast Cosmesis survey., 2 Years
This is a prospective observational cohort study in breast cancer participants. The purpose of this study is to report physician-assessed cosmetic outcomes.