Duvelisib Plus Docetaxel In Recurrent/Metastatic HNSCC
This trial that is investigating a medication called duvelisib in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) that has returned or spread outside the head and neck area.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Duvelisib (PI3K inhibitor)
* Docetaxel chemotherapy
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN)|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer|Advanced Head and Neck Cancer|Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Duvelisib|DRUG: Docetaxel
Best Overall Response (BOR) Rate, BOR rate was defined as the proportion of participants that experienced complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Median time on treatment was 2.3 months (range 0.7-21.9 months)
Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method was defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive., The median follow-up time was 6.5 months (range 0.7 - 26 months).|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on the Kaplan-Meier method was defined as the time from registration to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase. For non-target lesions, progression-free means no new lesions or unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions or not evaluated., Median follow-up time was 2.3 months (range 0.7-21.9 months)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Median follow-up time was 2.3 months (range 0.7-21.9 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment Related Adverse Events Per CTCAE 5.0, The number of participants who experienced the treatment-related adverse events per CTCAE 5.0 during the time of treatment., Median follow-up time was 2.3 months (range 0.7-21.9 months)|Change of QLQ H&N 35 From Cycle 1 to Cycle 4, The QLQ H\&N35 incorporates seven multi-item scales that assess pain, swallowing, senses (taste and smell), speech, social eating, social contact and sexuality. There are also eleven single items. The score range from 0 to 100.

For all items and scales, high scores indicate more problems, so negative difference indicates better QoL (less problems) at C4D1 compared to C1D1., Up to 3 months
This multicenter, phase II open-label, single-arm trial will enroll participants with recurrent or metastatic (R/M), incurable squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) who have failed or discontinued PD-1 blockade in the first-line (1L) advanced disease setting, regardless of human papillomavirus (HPV) and smoking status, or PI3K pathway alteration status.

This research study involves the oral (taken by mouth) agent duvelisib with the intravenous (IV) chemotherapy agent docetaxel.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Duvelisib (PI3K inhibitor)
* Docetaxel chemotherapy

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment for up to 2 years and will be followed for 3 years.

It is expected that about 30 people will take part in this research.

This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug (duvelisib) to learn whether it works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved duvelisib for this specific disease but has approved it for other uses (such as certain types of blood cancers). The FDA has approved docetaxel as a treatment option for head and neck cancer, as well as other cancer types.