PD1 Antibody Combined With mFOLFOX6 Neoadjuvant Therapy for Advanced Resectable Metastatic Colon Cancer
Evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD1 monoclonal antibody combined with mFOLFOX6 neoadjuvant therapy for advanced resectable metastatic colon cancer with enriched pro-inflammatory pan macrophage subpopulations
Metastatic Colon Cancer
DRUG: Serplulimab, mFOLFOX6
pathologic complete response（pCR）, pCR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a pathologic complete response, 1 month after resection
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by investigator., 1 month after resection|2-year overall survival rate, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause, 2-year|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, All participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event,Version 4.0(CTC AE4.0)., up to 6 months
In this study, patients with advanced resectable metastatic colon cancer requiring neoadjuvant chemotherapy were selected, and colon cancer patients enriched with TNFSF10+CXCL10+ panTAMs subgroup were screened, and neoadjuvant chemotherapy was performed with PD-1 monoclonal antibody combined with chemotherapy. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-1 monoclonal antibody combined with neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of special types of colon cancer.

All patients in this study were examined in the tumor microenvironment before treatment, and only patients enriched with TNFSF10+CXCL10+ panTAMs subgroup were enrolled in the study. Due to the long detection time, the patient received mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy for one week in the first cycle. If the test results meet the enriched proinflammatory panmacrophage subpopulation, patients can eventually be enrolled and receive PD-1 monoclonal antibody (Serplulimab, Srulimab) combined with mFOLFOX6 (oxaliplatin, fluorouracil) regimen, 2 weeks for 1 cycle. The primary radical resection was performed after 5 cycles of neoadjuvant therapy. Local treatment of liver/lung metastases was performed at the same time or at different times. Continue mFOLFOX6 chemotherapy for 4-6 cycles or CAPEOX regimen for 4 cycles within 1-2 months after surgery. Liver and lung metastases allow local treatment in any of these treatment cycles, including but not limited to radiofrequency ablation, particle implantation, radiation therapy, and surgery. At the end of postoperative adjuvant therapy, NED status was achieved. Then, regular follow-up.