A Study of MK-2206 in Combination With Trastuzumab and Lapatinib for the Treatment of HER2+ Solid Tumors (MK-2206-015)
This study will assess the safety, tolerability, and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MK-2206 in combination with both trastuzumab and trastuzumab/lapatinib in participants with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 positive (HER2+) breast cancer and other solid tumors. The primary hypothesis of this study is that the combination of oral MK-2206 with trastuzumab or with trastuzumab/lapatinib will be well tolerated in participants with advanced HER2+ solid tumors.
Advanced Solid Tumors|Breast Cancer
DRUG: MK-2206|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Lapatinib
Number of Participants Experiencing ≥1 Adverse Event, The number of participants experiencing an adverse event (AE) was assessed. An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the sponsor's product, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Further, any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the sponsor's product, is also an AE., Up to 36 weeks (up to 4 weeks following cessation of study treatment)|Number of Participants Discontinuing Study Drug Due to an Adverse Event, The number of participants discontinuing study drug due to an AE was assessed. An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally associated with the use of the sponsor's product, whether or not considered related to the use of the product. Further, any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a preexisting condition which is temporally associated with the use of the sponsor's product, is also an AE., Up to 32 weeks|Number of Participants Experiencing ≥1 Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) in Cycle 1, A DLT is a drug-related AE not related to disease progression or intercurrent illnesses. Toxicities are graded in severity according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCICTCAE) version 3.0. The following are considered DLTs: A.) Hematologic \[grade 4 neutropenia (≥5 days); grade 3/4 neutropenia; grade 4 thrombocytopenia.\] B.) Non-Hematologic \[any grade ≥3 non-hematologic toxicity except: grade 3 nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or dehydration; asthenia; hypersensitivity; grade 3 elevated transaminases (1 week).\] C.) Additional \[any drug-related AE leading to MK-2206 dose modification; grade ≥2 drug-related AE causing drug interruption (≥8 days); any drug-related AE causing drug interruption (≥15 days); grade ≥3 glucose intolerance with grade ≥2 hyperglycemia; fasting glucose \>250 mg/dL (≥2 days); grade ≥3 electrolyte abnormality; lactoacidosis or ketoacidosis; non-fasting grade 4 hyperglycemia; increased QTc interval; significant bradycardia.\]., Up to 3 weeks (up to day 21 of cycle 1)|Maximum Tolerated Dose of MK-2206 in Combination With Trastuzumab (Part 1) and With Trastuzumab/Lapatinib (Part 2), The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MK-2206 in combination with trastuzumab (Part 1) was assessed for both QOD and QW dosing schedules. To calculate MTD, a dose-response curve for the rate of patients in each treatment combination arm experiencing a DLT in Cycle 1 will be estimated using the pooling-of-adjacent-violators algorithm, with this dose-response curve used to determine the MTD. The MTD is defined as the dose at which the percentage of patients experiencing a DLT is the closest to 25% or 30% in Part 1 and Part 2, respectively. As the study was terminated prior to Part 2 enrollment, the MTD of MK-2206 in combination with trastuzumab/lapatinib could not be determined., Up to 3 weeks (up to day 21 of cycle 1)|Recommended Phase 2 Dose of MK-2206 in Combination With Trastuzumab (Part 1) and With Trastuzumab/Lapatinib (Part 2), The recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of MK-2206 in combination with trastuzumab (Part 1) was assessed. Data from Part 1 informing the determination of the MTD (i.e. DLTs in cycle 1), along with safety and tolerability data, and the pharmacokinetic profile was used to determine the RP2D for both the QOD and QW dosing of MK-2206 in combination with trastuzumab. As the study was terminated prior to Part 2 enrollment, the RP2D of MK-2206 in combination with trastuzumab/lapatinib could not be determined., Up to 36 weeks (up to 4 weeks following cessation of study treatment)
This study was divided into 2 parts. In Part 1, cohorts of 3 participants were to be enrolled sequentially on escalating doses of MK-2206 in combination with a fixed dose of trastuzumab. Barring dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), additional participants were to be enrolled and dose-finding would proceed until an MTD was identified for MK-2206 when dosed either every other day (QOD) or once weekly (QW) in combination with trastuzumab. In Part 2, cohorts of 3 participants were to be enrolled sequentially on rising doses of lapatinib administered in combination with the MTD dose of MK-2206/trastuzumab established in Part 1. Barring DLTs, dose finding would proceed until an MTD of the 3-drug combination was identified.