Omega-3 Fatty Acids in Preventing Joint Symptoms in Patients With Stage I-III Breast Cancer Receiving Anastrozole, Exemestane, or Letrozole
This randomized pilot trial studies omega-3 fatty acid in preventing joint symptoms in patients with stage I-III breast cancer receiving anastrozole, exemestane, or letrozole. Omega-3 fatty acid supplement may lessen or prevent joint stiffness or pain in patients receiving hormone therapy for breast cancer.
Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: omega-3 fatty acid supplement|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Clinical assessments|OTHER: Assessment of therapy complications|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Correlative/special studies
Pain score change after 6 months (6 months -baseline) based on the FACT-B/ES instrument, Pain scores based on FACT-B/ES, HAS and BPI will be plotted over time for each arm. Agreement between HAS, BPI-short and FACT-B/ES evaluated using Altman and Bland plot after proper data transformation. Also, Linear Mixed model used to explore if the pain scores are different at 3 and 6 months. Logistic regression models used to compare the occurrence of moderate to severe joint symptoms during the 6 month period between the two treatment groups, with potential covariates including age, body mass index, baseline pain scores (0 month), prior chemotherapy and other variables., baseline, 6 months
Pain score change after 6 months (6 months -baseline) based on the HAS and BPI instruments, Agreement between HAS, BPI-short and FACT-B/ES evaluated using Altman and Bland plot after proper data transformation. Also, Linear Mixed model used to explore if the pain scores are different at 3 and 6 months. Logistic regression models used to compare the occurrence of moderate to severe joint symptoms during the 6 month period between the two treatment groups, with potential covariates including age, body mass index, baseline pain scores (0 month), prior chemotherapy and other variables., baseline, 6 months|Compliance rates with oral supplements (omega-3 fatty acid and placebo), baseline, 6 months|Feasibility of using the instruments HAS, BPI-short, FACT-B/ES for the assessment of joint symptoms, baseline, 6 months|Effectiveness of blinding, Summarized using a Chi-square test., baseline, 6 months|Correlation of guess with pain scores, Checked using logistic models to see if treatment guesses are explained by the patient's awareness of clinical benefit., baseline, 6 months|Relationship between serum and RBC omega-3 fatty acid levels, inflammatory blood markers and MRI changes and the joint symptoms, Scatter plots and correlation coefficients (either Pearson or Spearman) will be used to summarize their pair wise relation. The differences between the treatment and placebo in terms of these measures will also be reported using numerical summaries and graphic plots., baseline, 6 months
OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility of evaluating joint symptoms in postmenopausal women with breast cancer randomized to n-3 PUFA (omega-3 fatty acid) vs. placebo supplementation using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B) and endocrine subscale (FACT-ES), Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) and Stanford's Health Assessment -Disability Index (HAS) during the first 6 months of adjuvant aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy.

II. To preliminarily evaluate the efficacy of n-3 PUFA vs. placebo supplementation on AI induced joint symptoms.

III. To explore blood and imaging based biomarkers (plasma and red blood cell \[RBC\] levels of n-3 PUFAs, inflammatory cytokines and receptors, and intra-articular tenosynovial inflammation by musculoskeletal magnetic resonance imaging \[MRI\] imaging) of AI-induced joint symptoms in women on AI therapy randomized to n-3 PUFAs vs. placebo supplementation.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive omega-3 fatty acid orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.