Immunization With NY-ESO-1 Protein Combined With CpG 7909 in Patients With Prostate Cancer
This was a Phase 1, open-label, fixed-dose study of immunization with the NY-ESO-1 protein combined with CpG 7909 as an adjuvant in patients with histopathologically confirmed, high-risk Stage D1 or advanced prostate cancer. The primary study objective was to assess the safety of NY-ESO-1 protein/CpG 7909 immunization, and the secondary objective was to evaluate the immunity induced by immunization.
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: NY-ESO-1 protein/CpG 7909
Number of Patients With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Toxicity was graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 3.0, as follows: Grade 1 (mild), Grade 2 (moderate), Grade 3 (severe), Grade 4 (life-threatening), and Grade 5 (fatal). Adverse events (AEs) were reported based on clinical laboratory tests, vital sign and weight measurements, physical examinations, performance status evaluations, and any other medically indicated assessments, including patient interviews, from the first dose of study treatment through the final follow-up visit. AEs were considered to be treatment emergent (TEAE) if they occurred or worsened in severity after the first dose of study treatment., Up to 56 weeks
Number of Patients With Cellular Antibody Response to NY-ESO-1, Assays to assess cluster of differentiation (CD)4+ and CD8+ antigen-specific responses were performed at baseline (within 14 days prior to the first vaccination) and during the vaccination period (Weeks 4, 10, 16, 22, and 28) by enzyme-linked immune absorbent spot (ELISPOT) assay. A positive response was considered if the number of spots in the peptide-exposed well was 2-fold or more higher than the number of spots in the unstimulated well, and if there was a minimum of 10 (after subtraction of background spots) peptide-specific spots/25.000 T cells or less if T-cell clones were used., Up to 28 weeks|Number of Patients With Humoral Antibody Response to NY-ESO-1, Assays to assess NY-ESO-1 specific antibodies were performed at baseline (within 14 days prior to the first vaccination) and during the vaccination period (Weeks 4, 7, 10, 13, 16, 19, 22, 25, and 28). Sera were assessed over a range of dilutions from 1:100 to 1:400,000. Vaccine-induced antibodies were mapped with a panel of overlapping 20 mer peptides (25 μg/mL) spanning the whole protein sequence by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Immunoglobulin (Ig) subclasses G1 and G3 were determined by Western blot analysis using secondary antibody mouse anti-human IgG1/IgG3 at a dilution of 1:1000., Up to 28 weeks|Number of Patients With Best Tumor Response as Measured by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Appropriate imaging scans were performed at baseline (within 14 days prior to the first vaccination) and during the vaccination period (Weeks 13 and 28). Response was assessed using RECIST version 1.0 (Therasse et al, J Natl Cancer Inst 2000; 92:205-16). Per RECIST, target lesions are categorized as follows: complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions (no evaluable disease); partial response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; progressive disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; stable disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria., Up to 32 weeks
Eligible patients received vaccinations consisting of the NY-ESO-1 protein (100 µg) combined with CpG 7909 (2.5 mg) administered intradermally every 3 weeks for 4 doses. Patients who demonstrated stable disease, minor response, partial response, or complete response at Week 13 may have continued to receive vaccinations until disease progression. In patients with mixed response, single progressive lesions may have been resected and vaccination may have been continued.

Safety was monitored continuously. Blood samples were obtained for clinical hematology, biochemistry and immune response assessments, including antinuclear antibody (ANA) and anti-dsDNA, NY-ESO-1 and/or LAGE-1 specific antibodies, and NY-ESO-1 specific cluster of differentiation (CD)4+ and CD8+ T cells.

A tumor sample, resected prior to immunization, was tested to determine NY-ESO-1 and/or LAGE-1 expression. Delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) testing was performed at baseline and on study.

Disease status was assessed at baseline and on study in patients with measurable disease.