Ruxolitinib for Bronchiolitis Obliterans Syndrome (BOS) After Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT)
This research study is studying a drug as a possible treatment for Bronchiolitis Obliterans Syndrome (BOS) after having an Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT).
Other Cancer
DRUG: ruxolitinib
absolute FEV1 increase, The proportion of participants with a sustained, absolute FEV1 increase by ≥ 10% after 3 months of treatment with ruxolitinib (compared to baseline measure prior to study enrollment) among participants with newly diagnosed Bronchiolitis Obliterans Syndrome BOS., 3 Months|treatment failure, comparing 3-month FEV1 to baseline FEV1, The proportion of participants who do not experience a sustained, absolute decrease in FEV1 by ≥ 10% after 3 months of treatment with ruxolitinib (compared to baseline measure prior to study enrollment) among participants with established Bronchiolitis Obliterans Syndrome BOS., 3 Months
Change scores for PFT measurements, Change in pulmonary function test (PFT) measurements., 1 Year|Improvements in chronic GVHD organ manifestations, Improvements in chronic GVHD organ manifestations will be categorized according to the NIH chronic GVHD consensus criteria., 3 and 6 Months|Overall survival, 2 Years|cGVHD progression-free survival, cGVHD progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to the earlier of progression of chronic GVHD or death due to any cause. Participants alive without cGVHD progression are censored at the date of last disease evaluation., 2 Years|The incidence and types of serious adverse events, Adverse events are graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4)., From the start of treatment until 30 days after the end of treatment, up to 13 months total|The total systemic corticosteroid dose longitudinally over time, 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved ruxolitinib for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

In this study the investigators are assessing the safety and effectiveness of ruxolitinib when given to participants who have been diagnosed with BOS after HCT. BOS is a sign/symptom of chronic Graft-vs-Host Disease (GVHD), a condition in which cells from the donor's tissue attack the organs after HCT occurs.

Ruxolitinib blocks certain proteins called tyrosine kinases. Specifically, it blocks tyrosine kinases called JAK2. The investigators believe that ruxolitinib may lower the rate of GVHD through its ability to block the JAK2 pathway since this pathway can lead to inflammation in the body.