A Study to Evaluate Zilovertamab Vedotin (MK-2140) Combination With Rituximab Plus Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, and Prednisone (R-CHP) Versus Rituximab Plus Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisone (R-CHOP) in Participants With Previously Untreated DLBCL (MK-2140-010)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate if zilovertamab vedotin with standard treatment can help people live longer without the cancer growing or spreading than people who receive standard treatment alone.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Zilovertamab vedotin|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab Biosimilar|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Prednisolone|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Rescue medication
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per Lugano response criteria by blinded independent central review (BICR) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to ~ 50 months
Complete Response at End of Treatment (CR at EOT), CR at EOT is defined as a CR per Lugano response criteria as assessed by BICR at end of treatment. Participants with missing data or who discontinue treatment or study prior to reaching EOT will be considered non-responders and included in the total number of participants., Up to ~ 32 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to ~ 74 months|Event-free Survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the time from randomization to any of the following events: progressive disease that precludes surgery, local or distant recurrence, second primary malignancy or death due to any cause. The EFS for all participants will be presented., Up to ~ 74 months|Duration of Complete Response (DurCR), For participants who demonstrate CR at EOT per Lugano response criteria by BICR, duration of complete response is defined as the time from the first documented evidence of CR at or before EOT until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to ~ 74 months|Number of Participants Who Experience an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experience at least one AE will be presented., Up to ~ 9 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., Up to ~ 6 months|Change From Baseline in Health-Related Quality Of Life (HRQoL) on Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Lymphoma (FACT-Lym) Trial Outcome Index (TOI) Score, The FACT-Lym is a 42-item questionnaire designed to measure HRQoL and cancer-specific symptoms in non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients. Subscales include FACT-General (FACT-G), FACT-Trial Outcome Index (FACT-TOI), FACT-Lym total score (FACT-Lym TS), and the Lymphoma subscale (Lym S). The Lym S has a single domain consisting of 15 items specific to lymphoma burden with a score ranging from 0 to 60. FACT-G has 4 well-being domains, physical (7 items), social/family (7), emotional (6), and functional (7), with scores ranging from 0 to 108. FACT-TOI combines FACT-G's physical and functional domains with Lym S, with scores ranging from 0 to 116. FACT-Lym TS combines FACT-G with Lym S, with scores ranging from 0 to 168. The scoring of FACT-Lym is on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 to 4, with 0= not at all, 1= a little bit, 2= somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much. The higher the score the better the quality of life., Baseline and Week 25|Change From Baseline in HRQoL on FACT-Lym Total Score, The FACT-Lym is a 42-item questionnaire designed to measure HRQoL and cancer-specific symptoms in non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients. Subscales include FACT-General (FACT-G), FACT-Trial Outcome Index (FACT-TOI), FACT-Lym total score (FACT-Lym TS), and the Lymphoma subscale (Lym S). The Lym S has a single domain consisting of 15 items specific to lymphoma burden with a score ranging from 0 to 60. FACT-G has 4 well-being domains, physical (7 items), social/family (7), emotional (6), and functional (7), with scores ranging from 0 to 108. FACT-TOI combines FACT-G's physical and functional domains with Lym S, with scores ranging from 0 to 116. FACT-Lym TS combines FACT-G with Lym S, with scores ranging from 0 to 168. The scoring of FACT-Lym is on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 to 4, with 0= not at all, 1= a little bit, 2= somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much. The higher the score the better the quality of life., Baseline and Week 25|Change From Baseline in HRQoL on FACT-Lym Physical Wellbeing (PWB) Score, The FACT-Lym is a 42-item questionnaire designed to measure HRQoL and cancer-specific symptoms in non-Hodgkin lymphoma patients. Subscales include FACT-General (FACT-G), FACT-Trial Outcome Index (FACT-TOI), FACT-Lym total score (FACT-Lym TS), and the Lymphoma subscale (Lym S). The Lym S has a single domain consisting of 15 items specific to lymphoma burden with a score ranging from 0 to 60. FACT-G has 4 well-being domains, physical (7 items), social/family (7), emotional (6), and functional (7), with scores ranging from 0 to 108. FACT-TOI combines FACT-G's physical and functional domains with Lym S, with scores ranging from 0 to 116. FACT-Lym TS combines FACT-G with Lym S, with scores ranging from 0 to 168. The scoring of FACT-Lym is on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 to 4, with 0= not at all, 1= a little bit, 2= somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much. The higher the score the better the quality of life., Baseline and Week 25|Change From Baseline in HRQoL on Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-NTX) Neurotoxicity Subscale Score, The FACT GOG-NTX provides a targeted assessment of symptoms of peripheral neuropathy, including sensory, motor, and auditory problems and cold sensitivity. It is an 11-item questionnaire designed to measure the neurotoxicity subscale. The scoring of FACT GOG-NTX is on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 to 4, with 0= not at all, 1= a little bit, 2= somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much. To produce a Neurotoxicity Subscale score (range 0-44), multiply the sum of the item scores by the number of items in the subscale, then divide by the number of items answered., Baseline and Week 25
The purpose of this study is to evaluate if zilovertamab vedotin with standard treatment can help people live longer without the cancer growing or spreading than people who receive standard treatment alone.