Neoadjuvant Immunotherapy Combined With the Anti-GDF-15 Antibody Visugromab to Treat Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
This is a multi-center, stratified and single-blinded Phase 2 study of neoadjuvant immunotherapy in combination with the antiGDF15 antibody visugromab (CTL-002) for the treatment of subjects with MIBC set to undergo radical Cystectomy (RC)/Re-TURBT who cannot receive or refuse to receive cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
Bladder Cancer|Adult Solid Tumor
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Visugromab (CTL-002)|DRUG: Placebo
Pathologic complete response rate, Rate of subjects with no viable tumor cells in Radical Cystectomy Resection/Re-TURBT, min. 4 months|Radiologic response rate according RECIST, RECIST 1.1 prior Radical Cystectomy/Re-TURBT, min. 4 months
Adverse Events, Incidence of treatment emergent adverse events, min. 6 months|Treatment related delay of surgery, Treatment related delay of Radical Cystectomy/Re-TURBT \> 8 weeks after last dose of study, min. 4 months|Cmax following the first dose of Visugromab (CTL-002), PK parameter from serum Visugromab (CTL-002) levels, 1 day|AUC following the first dose of Visugromab (CTL-002), PK parameter from serum Visugromab (CTL-002) levels, 28 days|Half-life of Visugromab (CTL-002), PK parameter from serum Visugromab (CTL-002) levels, min. 3 months|GDF-15 serum levels, Measurement of concentration in peripheral blood, 1 day|Evaluation of tumor stage downgrading from baseline to Radical Cystectomy/Re-TURBT, Pathological response evaluation according to American Joint Committee on Cancer Staging System, 8th edition, 2017, min. 3 months|Evaluation of EFS (Event-free Survival), Event-free survival will be defined as the time from first study drug administration to one of the following:

Radiographic disease progression precluding a curative intent surgery per RECIST v1.1 prior to RC/Re-TURBT

Initiation of neoadjuvant chemotherapy preceding RC/Re.TURBT as per Investigator decision

Inability to undergo RC/Re-TURBT due to the onset of treatment-related side effects

Inability to complete a curative intent surgery determined by the urologist at the time of RC/Re-TURBT (e.g., unresectable tumor, metastases discovered at RC)

Local or distant recurrence assessed by cross-sectional imaging and/or biopsy after RC/Re-TURBT

Death from any cause. In this study, subject refusal to undergo RC due to the evidence of complete or near-complete clinical response (assessed on cross-sectional imaging as previously described) will not be considered an event., 12 months after Radical Cystectomy/Re-TURBT|OS (Overall Survival), Overall survival is defined as the time from the first study drug administration to the date of death, regardless of the cause of death.

Subjects who were alive at the time of the analysis will be censored at the date the subject was last known to be alive., 15 months|Evaluation of TTR (Time to Relapse), Time to relapse will be measured from the time of RC/Re-TURBT until the day of documented relapse., 12 months after Radical Cystectomy/Re-TURBT|isugromab-induced anti-drug antibodies (ADA) development., The number and percentage of subjects with any detectable ADA after first IMP administration, min. 5 months
Tumor biopsy analysis, min. 3 months|Evaluation of selected cytokine and chemokine concentration in peripheral blood, min. 3 months
This is a multi-center, stratified and single-blinded Phase 2 study of neoadjuvant immunotherapy in combination with the antiGDF15 antibody visugromab (CTL-002) for the treatment of subjects with MIBC set to undergo radical Cystectomy (RC)/Re-TURBT who cannot receive or refuse to receive cisplatin-based chemotherapy.