Safety of TT-00420 (Tinengotinib) Monotherapy in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors and Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This is a first-in-human, phase I clinical research study with TT-00420, an investigational, oral, multi-target, dual mechanism kinase inhibitor targeting both mitosis and tumor micro-environment, for the treatment of triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and other advanced solid tumors. The study consists of a dose escalation part followed by a MTD expansion part.
Advanced Solid Tumors|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: TT-00420
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and/or Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), FIH Dose Finding, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
Dose Recommended for Dose Expansion (DRDE), Dose Recommended for Dose Expansion, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Optimal Biological Dose (OBD), Dose Recommended for Dose Expansion, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Number of Participants With Abnormal Laboratory Values, Safety and tolerability of TT-00420, Up to 30 days from study discontinuation|Number of Participants With Adverse Events That Are Related to Treatment, Safety and tolerability of TT-00420, Up to 30 days from study discontinuation|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of TT-00420, PK parameters of TT-00420, through study completion, an average of 6 months|Time at which Cmax was first observed (Tmax) of TT-00420, PK parameters of TT-00420, through study completion, an average of 6 months|Half-life (T1/2) of TT-00420, PK parameters of TT-00420, through study completion, an average of 6 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR of TT-00420 in patients with TNBC or SAT treated in Dose Expansion cohorts, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR of TT-00420 in patients with TNBC or SAT treated in Dose Expansion cohorts, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR of TT-00420 in patients with TNBC or SAT treated in Dose Expansion cohorts, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS of TT-00420 in patients with TNBC or SAT treated in Dose Expansion cohorts, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), OS of TT-00420 in patients with TNBC or SAT treated in Dose Expansion cohorts, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Exploratory Biomarker Assay, TNBC subtype; pH3, angiogenesis, p-STAT3 etc.; MSI, TMB, through study completion, an average of 6 months
Dose Escalation Cohorts: Eligible adult patients with advanced solid tumors will be enrolled into Dose Escalation cohorts. Starting dose of TT-00420 mono-therapy will be 1 mg p.o., q.d. TT-00420 capsule will be administered once daily on a continuous schedule. A treatment cycle consists of 28 days. An ABLRM guided by the EWOC principle will evaluate the risk of under-dose or over-dose for the dose tested in each cohort and provide the recommendation dose for next cohort. Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be evaluated per the pre-defined DLT criteria and managed by the pre-defined rules detailed in the protocol. Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and/or Dose Recommend for Dose Expansion (DRDE) will be determined in Dose Escalation cohorts.

Dose Expansion Cohorts:

TNBC Cohort:

TNBC Dose-Expansion cohort will be opened to enroll the patients with advanced TNBC and evaluate the safety, PK and preliminary efficacy of TT-00420 to identify the optimal biological dose (OBD), when feasible, in patients with advanced TNBC.

SAT Cohort:

A parallel basket SAT Dose Expansion Cohort will be open to enroll patients with selected advanced tumors (SAT) to evaluate the safety, PK and preliminary efficacy of TT-00420 to identify the optimal biological dose (OBD), when feasible, in patients with SATs.

Recruitment in dose expansion cohorts may be put on hold if any significant safety finding(s) that was not observed in dose escalation cohorts is identified. Bayesian modeling will be updated with the new findings to evaluate if the previously determined MTD or DRDE still suitable for further enrollment.