Patients Who Refractory Cancer Conqueror for Bio New Drug Development Translational Research Establishment
■ Unmet medical needs for Refractory cancer Conquest

- Many advanced cancers are still detected Despite remarkable technological advances for the early diagnosis of cancer in the field last 20 years.

In the type of progressive carcinoma is very high malignancy despite a variety of therapeutic target treatment for refractory cancer.

The refractory cancer patients who main focus of this research defined as the adult solid tumor patients who have failed standard therapy according to the criteria

NCCN / ASCO (American Society of imsangam) / KCSG (Study Group for chemotherapy).

The survival rate of refractory cancer patients are estimated to be 30-40% of the total patients with metastatic solid tumors and these refractory cancers are

difficult to deal with or control to conventional treatment so shows almost close to 100% mortality.

Therefore the new development of therapies for conquer of refractory cancer are urgently required.

■ Preclinical translational research Unmet Needs of Bio-new drug development for conquer of refractory cancer

- The stage of preclinical translational research (Translational Research) connects between the early stages of development and clinical trials in the stage drug development.

The establishment of foundation based on the translational research is very necessary and this must have proven ability to treat refractory cancer.

The most anti-cancer drugs developed by existing preclinical testing method actually does not show a remarkable effect in many cases in the clinical trials,

even if showed a remarkable inhibitory cancer effect in animal testing.

The exact molecular diagnosis to treat targets and paradigm for the development of new drugs at the same time requires for target treatment.

The tailored cell lines by patients and the proven technology by animal models and unmet need for preclinical translational research is increasing
Refractory Cancer
The amount of sample size, ■ Target number of subjects (years) GBM : 120 case Colon Cancer : 200 case Gastric Cancer : 345 case Ovarian Cancer : 40 case Lung Cancer : 30 case Breast Cancer : 100 case Brain metastases : 120 case Bone metastases : 50 case Lymphoma : 10 case Pancreatic Cancer : 100 case Gall Bladder cancer : 20 case Prostate Cancer : 50 case Kidney Cancer : 100 case Bladder Cancer : 200 case Osteosarcoma : 15 case Soft tissue sarcoma : 50 case Head \& neck cancer : 30 case Other Brain tumor : 100case

- Total case : 1680 case, 10years
The size of real tumor portion on obtained tumor specimen, 1. In the samples of frozen tissue stored at -80 ° C are processed by the method Frozen Hematoxylin \& Eosin Stain.
2. The criteria of evaluation : tumor size, Tumor Area, Tumor Cell Density, Tumor Nucleus Amount, Necrosis.
3. The Results are distincted by Accept, Intermediate, Fail., 10 years
Genomic DNA Extraction from blood specimen, 1. Using QIAGEN kit: QIAmp DNA mini kit (Cat. No. 51306)
2. The Volume measurement: Using Spectrophotometer (Nanodrop, ND-1000), 10 years
■ The specimen obtainer in surgery room contact with the manager of Institute Refractory Cancer Research team by calling to Medi-call system(Phone No.system T.9825).

The specimen obtainer gives the information of speciman to the manager .

The manager contact to the speciman deleverer and The speciman deleverer transported the specimens safely to the laboratory space.

The written informed consent form should obtained from the subject prior to the surgery.

In the case of blood samples, The total 15 \~ 20 ㎖ blood (only once) extracted from the subject and about 10 \~ 15 ㎖ blood is used for the genomic DNA extraction.