Adjuvant Apalutamide in Subjects With High-risk Localized or Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer After Radical Prostatectomy
The primary objective of this trial is to determine if adjuvant apalutamide in prostate cancer patients at high risk of developing subsequent metastatic disease results in prolonged biochemically recurrence-free survival after radical prostatectomy (RPE) in comparison to standard of care (SOC).
Prostatic Neoplasms
OTHER: Standard of care|DRUG: Apalutamide 60Mg Tab
Progression-free survival (PFS)., This endpoint is defined as time interval from randomization until BCR (irrespective of the PSADT), metastases, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. BCR is defined as a PSA ≥ 0.2 ng/ml that has risen on at least two separate occasions at least four weeks ± 3 days apart and measured by the central PSA-lab. The time of BCR is then backdated to the time of the first increased PSA measurement.

Metastatic disease will be defined as the presence of bone metastases visualized on bone scan prostate cancer working group 3 (PCWG3)-criteria; and/or visceral (e.g. liver, lung, brain) or extra-pelvic nodal metastases visualized on CT scan (or MRI scan) (RECIST 1.1-criteria). Evaluations will be performed every 6 months once BCR occurred or sooner if clinically indicated.

For a patient with none of these events before the end of follow-up, observation of PFS will be censored at the date of his date of last contact., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression (BCR or metastases) or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 7 years"
PSA doubling time (PSADT), In case of a BCR, PSA kinetics as the PSADT are calculated based on the monthly PSA measurements during the first six months after the BCR. The values used to determine the BCR are included in the calculation of PSA kinetics as well.

PSADT is calculated according to Pound et al. by the natural log of 2 (0.693) divided by the slope of the relationship between the log of PSA and time of PSA measurement (i.e. time from BCR) for each patient \[33\]. PSADT can also be assessed using the MSKCC PSADT calculator (https://www.mskcc.org/nomograms/prostate/psa_doubling_time) using the above definitions., If BCR occurs up to 6 months later|Incidence of Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Safety and tolerability assessed on the basis of adverse events, more precisely adverse events, serious adverse events, adverse reactions, and serious adverse reactions, From date the informed consent is signed until BCR occured and PSADT was calculated or when distant metastasis occurred (both with or without BCR) or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 7 years.
The primary objective of this trial is to determine if adjuvant apalutamide in prostate cancer patients at high risk of developing subsequent metastatic disease results in prolonged biochemically recurrence-free survival after radical prostatectomy (RPE) in comparison to standard of care (SOC).