Effects of Buteyko Breathing Technique Versus Incentive Spirometer on Breath Holding Time, Cardiopulmonary Endurance and Quality of Life in Patients With Post Lung Tumor Resection
The pulmonary complications are the major cause of morbidity and mortality following Lung surgeries. The Buteyko breathing technique is used for reversing the health condition such as poor breathing, mouth breathing and over breathing. Incentive spirometry is widely used postoperatively in the belief that intermittent ventilation restores alveolar aeration and improves oxygenation. Objective of this study will be to compare the effects of Buteyko breathing technique versus Incentive Spirometer on breath holding time, cardiopulmonary endurance and quality of life in patients with post lung tumor resection. Sample size was calculated using Control Pause as outcome measure was 16 in each group after adding 20% dropout the sample size will be 16+3=19 in each group. Participants will be randomized in to two groups Buteyko breathing technique group and incentive spirometry group. Data will be collected by the Purposive Sampling technique. Breath Holding time, cardiopulmonary endurance and quality of life will be measured for both groups at the beginning of study (1st post-operative day) and after the end of training (5th post-operative day). Data will be entered into SPSS for Statistical Analysis.
Lung Tumor Resuction
OTHER: Buteyko Breathing Technique
Breath Holding Time, A test used as a rough index of cardiopulmonary reserve, measured by the length of time a person can hold his or her breath after normal relaxed breathing until the slight feeling of next breath. Control Pause correlate well with the severity of disease and will be measured in seconds. Control pause is reliable and valid variable to find out the severity of disease i-e a person who can hold his breath up to 40s. It will indicate a good pulmonary condition and a person who cannot hold breath up to 10s is in status of poor pulmonary condition., 7 days|Cardiopulmonary Endurance, Cardiorespiratory endurance is the level at which your heart, lungs, and muscles work together when you're exercising for an extended period of time. it will be measured by 6 minutes walk test. Higher the cardiopulmonary endurance indicate a good pulmonary condition., 7 days|Quality of Life, World Health Organization defines Quality of Life as an individual's perception of their position in life in the context of the culture and value systems in which they live and in relation to their goals, expectations, standards and concerns. it will be measured by WHO Quality of Life Questionnaire at the scale of 0-100. 0 indicates worst quality of life and 100 indicates good quality of life., 7 days
The pulmonary complications are the major cause of morbidity and mortality following Lung surgeries. The Buteyko breathing technique is used for reversing the health condition such as poor breathing, mouth breathing and over breathing. Incentive spirometry is widely used postoperatively in the belief that intermittent ventilation restores alveolar aeration and improves oxygenation. Objective of this study will be to compare the effects of Buteyko breathing technique versus Incentive Spirometer on breath holding time, cardiopulmonary endurance and quality of life in patients with post lung tumor resection. Sample size was calculated using Control Pause as outcome measure was 16 in each group after adding 20% dropout the sample size will be 16+3=19 in each group. Participants will be randomized in to two groups Buteyko breathing technique group and incentive spirometry group. Data will be collected by the Purposive Sampling technique. Breath Holding time, cardiopulmonary endurance and quality of life will be measured for both groups at the beginning of study (1st post-operative day) and after the end of training (5th post-operative day). Data will be entered into SPSS for Statistical Analysis. Study will be completed within 9 months after the approval of synopsis. Participants included the study will be those who underwent lung surgery for the first time. Both male and female will be included. The patient of age between 45-55 years. Hyperventilated patient due to post-operative pain. Participants excluded were those having Post-operative renal failure or arrhythmia needed for a pacemaker. Post-operative mechanical ventilation (more than 24 hours). Patients suffering from Cardiac diseases. (Congenital heart disease, Coronary artery disease (narrowing of the arteries), Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, Heart attack, Heart failure. And Heart muscle disease)