Panobinostat in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
Panobinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. This phase II trial is studying how well panobinostat works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma
Adult Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-cell Lymphoma|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Hepatosplenic T-cell Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma|Post-transplant Lymphoproliferative Disorder|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Small Intestine Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: panobinostat|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|GENETIC: western blotting|GENETIC: DNA analysis|OTHER: flow cytometry|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method
Proportion of Confirmed Responses Defined to be a CR or PR Noted as the Objective Status, The primary endpoint of this phase II trial is the proportion of confirmed responses (complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)) noted as the objective status and will be considered synonymous with "success" for this study.Response will be evaluated using all cycles of treatment. A CR is defined using the Cheson et al. Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma as Disappearance of all evidence of disease. A PR is defined as Regression of measurable disease and no new sites with ≥50% decrease in SPD of up to 6 largest dominant masses; no increase in size of other nodes. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Every 28 days for up to 2 years
Median Overall Survival Time, The median overall survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Every 6 months for up to 2 years|Median Progression-free Survival Time, The median progression-free survival time is defined as the time from registration to progression or death due to any cause. The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using the Cheson et al. Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma as: Any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir, Appearance of a new lesion(s) \> 1.5 cm in any axis, ≥50% increase from nadir in SPD of more than one node, or ≥50% increase in longest diameter of a previously identified node \> 1 cm in short axis, Lesions PET positive if FDG-avid lymphoma or PET positive prior to therapy, \> 50% increase from nadir in the SPD of any previous lesions, New or recurrent involvement., Every 6 months for up to 2 years|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved a confirmed response as the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be a CR or PR to the earliest date progression (PD) is documented. The distribution of duration of response will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. (CR: Disappearance of all evidence of disease, PR: Regression of measurable disease and no new sites, PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir)., Every 6 months for up to 2 years
Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic of LBH589 and Correlation With Clinical Effects as Assessed by Immunoblotting, SNPs Analysis, Serum Cytokine Assays, and Flow Cytometry for Suppressive Monocytes (Correlative Studies), At baseline and day 1 of courses 3, 5, 7 and every three courses thereafter for up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To evaluate the proportion of confirmed response of LBH589 in patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To describe the toxicities associated with LBH589 in patients with NHL. II. To evaluate overall survival, progression-free survival, and duration of response in patients treated with LBH589. TERTIARY OBJECTIVES: I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of LBH589. II. To assess the correlation between clinical (toxicity and/or tumor response or activity) effects with the pharmacologic (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic) parameters, and/or biologic (correlative laboratory) results. OUTLINE: Patients receive oral panobinostat 3 times weekly. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 2 years.