Vaccine Therapy and Resiquimod in Treating Patients With Stage II-IV Melanoma That Has Been Removed By Surgery
This pilot clinical trial studies vaccine therapy and resiquimod in treating patients with stage II-IV melanoma that has been removed by surgery. Vaccines made from peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cell tumor cells. Biological therapies, such as resiquimod, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. It is not yet known whether Gag:267-274 peptide vaccine and resiquimod are more effective when given together or separately
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IIA Melanoma|Stage IIB Melanoma|Stage IIC Melanoma|Stage IIIA Melanoma|Stage IIIB Melanoma|Stage IIIC Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: Montanide ISA 51 VG|BIOLOGICAL: MART-1 antigen|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Gag:267-274 peptide vaccine|DRUG: resiquimod
Immune response of each vaccination regimen, defined as a 2-fold or more increase from pre-treatment levels in the frequency of vaccine peptide-specific CTL as measured by tetramer staining, The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true immune response rate will be calculated., Up to 12 months
Disease-free survival, Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to recurrence, new primary, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Incidence of adverse events, graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the immune response of each immunization regimen and determine an optimal regimen in terms of immune response to recommend for phase II testing.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the adverse events profile of each immunization regimen. II. Evaluate disease-free survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the immunological efficacy of the vaccine preparations with Gag267-274 (Gag:267-274 peptide vaccine) and resiquimod, as measured by the frequency and interferon (IFN)gamma production of peptide-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL).

II. Examine immune responses to the tumor antigen analog MART-1a (MART-1 antigen) versus the xenoantigen Gag267-274.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

ARM I: Patients receive MART-1 antigen and Gag:267-274 peptide vaccine emulsified in Montanide ISA 51 VG subcutaneously (SC) on day 1.

ARM II: Patients receive MART-1 antigen emulsified in Montanide ISA 51 VG SC followed by resiquimod applied topically on day 1.

ARM III: Patients receive MART-1 antigen and Gag:267-274 peptide vaccine emulsified in Montanide ISA 51 VG SC followed by resiquimod applied topically on day 1.

In all arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, 12 and 24 months.