A Randomized Study of Amplimexon (Imexon) With Gemcitabine in Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine if imexon in combination with gemcitabine could improve overall survival as compared to gemcitabine alone in subjects with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other organs such as the liver or lungs. The study will also look at the safety of the combination as compared to gemcitabine alone. Participants in the study will be randomly assigned to either treatment and neither the participant or their doctors will know which treatment they will be receiving.
Pancreatic Neoplasms
DRUG: imexon in combination with gemcitabine|DRUG: imexon placebo + gemcitabine
Overall Survival for the Intent to Treat Population, To compare the overall survival duration of the two treatment arms. Overall survival is measured from the time of randomization until reported death. Subjects were censored at last time known alive if lost to follow-up. Alive patients were censored at the last survival follow-up. Follow-up was monthly after off study treatment., up to 2 years|To Evaluate and Compare the Tolerability and Toxicity of the Two Treatment Arms by Comparing Adverse Events, Number of Participants with Adverse Events were compared between the two arms to detect any differences in number or types of events, Adverse events were collected from the time of treatment until the participant went off study treatment, an average of 4 months
Objective Response Rates of the Two Treatment Arms, Objective response is measured by tumor reduction as defined in the RECIST criteria. Tumor shrinkage must be at least 30% to qualify as an objective response., one year|Progression Free Survival, To compare the median progression free survival (PFS) of the two treatment arms. Progression free survival is measured from randomization until the subject has documented disease progression by an objective measure. Subjects were censored if no documented progression had occurred at the one year time point. Subjects must be alive with no more than 20% increase in tumor size to qualify for progression free survival. Changes in tumor size are defined by RECIST criteria., one year
The purpose of this study is to determine if imexon in combination with gemcitabine could improve overall survival as compared to gemcitabine alone in subjects with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other organs such as the liver or lungs. The study will also look at the safety of the combination as compared to gemcitabine alone. Participants in the study will be randomly assigned to either treatment and neither the participant or their doctors will know which treatment they will be receiving.