A Study to Assess the Safety and Reactogenicity of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals' Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine (Cervarix) in Healthy Female Filipino Subjects Vaccinated According to the Prescribing Information From the Age of 10 Years Onwards.
The purpose of this study was to assess the safety and reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals' Cervarix vaccine in healthy female Filipino subjects from the age of 10 years onwards, as per the Bureau of Food and Drugs Directive of Philippines.
Human Papillomavirus Infection Leading to Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Cervarix
Number of Subjects Reporting Any and Grade 3 Solicited Local Symptoms, Solicited local symptoms assessed were pain, redness and swelling. Any was defined as any solicited local symptom reported irrespective of intensity grade. Grade 3 pain was defined as pain that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 redness and swelling were defined as redness and swelling above 50 millimeters (mm)., During the 7-day follow-up period (Days 0-6) after each dose and across doses|Number of Subjects Reporting Any, Grade 3 and Related Solicited General Symptoms, Solicited general symptoms assessed were arthralgia, fatigue, fever, gastrointestinal, headache, myalgia, rash and urticaria. Any fever = axillary temperature ≥ 37.5 degrees Celsius (°C). For other symptoms: Any = any solicited general symptom reported irrespective of intensity and relationship to study vaccination. Related = symptoms considered by the investigator as causally related to study vaccination. Grade 3 symptoms = symptoms that prevented normal activity. Grade 3 urticaria = urticaria distributed on at least 4 body areas. Grade 3 fever = axillary temperature \> 39.0°C., During the 7-day follow-up period (Days 0-6) after each dose and across doses|Number of Subjects Reporting Any, Grade 3, Related and Grade 3 and Related Unsolicited Adverse Events (AEs), An unsolicited AE covers any AE reported in addition to those solicited during the clinical study and any solicited symptom with onset outside the specified period of follow-up for solicited symptoms. Any was defined as the occurrence of any unsolicited AE regardless of intensity grade or relation to study vaccination. Grade 3 = event which prevented normal, everyday activities. Related = event assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination. Grade 3 and Related = grade 3 event assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination., During the 30-day (Days 0-29) post-vaccination period|Number of Subjects With Any, Grade 3 and Related Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), SAEs assessed include medical occurrences that resulted in death, were life-threatening, required hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, resulted in disability/incapacity or were a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject. Any was defined as occurrence of any symptom regardless of intensity grade. Grade 3 SAE = SAE which prevented normal, everyday activities. Related SAE = SAE assessed by the investigator as causally related to the study vaccination., During the entire study period (from Day 0 up to Month 7)
The purpose of this study was to assess the safety and reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals' Cervarix vaccine in healthy female Filipino subjects from the age of 10 years onwards, as per the Bureau of Food and Drugs Directive of Philippines.