TMI With HD Mel in ASCT for R/R Multiple Myeloma (BMT-03)
In this phase I trial, patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma will receive standard autologous stem cell transplant conditioned with high dose melphalan. In addition to Melphalan, the conditioning will include targeted total marrow irradiation (TMI). This is a conventional 3+3 phase I trial with increasing doses of TMI from minimum 3Gy to Maximum 9Gy.
Multiple Myeloma, Relapsed|Multiple Myeloma, Refractory to Standard Treatment
RADIATION: Total Marrow Irradiation|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Filgrastim (G-CSF)|PROCEDURE: Autologous transplant|RADIATION: Total Marrow Irradiation|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Filgrastim (G-CSF)|PROCEDURE: Autologous transplant|RADIATION: Total Marrow Irradiation|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Filgrastim (G-CSF)|PROCEDURE: Autologous transplant
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Gy, Assessing MTD of TMI of 3Gy, 6Gy and 9Gy, Up to 60 days post-transplant.
Progression Free Survival (PFS) and in Patients With Multiple Myeloma (Relapsed or Refractory) Undergoing Autologous Stem Cell Transplant Using the Combination of High Dose Melphalan and Total Marrow Irradiation, The disease status of enrolled patients will be evaluated based on the International Myeloma Working Group Criteria.

Response Criteria

Stringent Complete Response (sCR) in addition to CR all of the following:

1. Normal free light chain ratio (FLC)
2. Absence of clonal cells in the bone marrow by immunohistochemistry if this is performed

Complete Response (CR) requires all of the following:

1. Absence of the original monoclonal paraprotein in the serum or the urine by routine electrophoresis and by immunofixation. The presence of new monoclonal bands consistent with oligoclonal immune reconstitution does not exclude CR.
2. Less than 5% plasma cells in a bone marrow aspirate and bone marrow biopsy if this is performed.
3. No increase in size or number of lytic bone lesions on radiologic investigation (development of compression fracture does not exclude CR and radiographs are not required to document CR if not clinically indicated)
4. Disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytoma, Up to 1 year post-transplant.
In this phase I trial, patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma will receive standard high dose melphalan with autologous stem cell rescue. In addition the pre-transplant conditioning will include targeted total marrow irradiation (TMI). This conventional 3+3 phase I trial will increase the dose of TMI until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached. Initial patients enrolled will receive the lowest possible dose of 3Gy. Maximum dose will be 9Gy.