Bortezomib Plus Cisplatin in Recurrent or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This a phase 1 study to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of cisplatin combined with bortezomib in patients with recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer
DRUG: Bortezomib (B)|DRUG: Cisplatin (CDDP)|DRUG: Bortezomib (B)|DRUG: Bortezomib (B)|DRUG: Cisplatin (CDDP)
Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), The DLT assessment period is from day 1 to day 21 of the subject's first dose plus 24 hours after the second dose, that is, 22 days.

Each dose group must first enroll 3 subjects. If no DLT occurs in the first cycle (within 28 days after the first dose), the dose will be increased to the next cohort; if 1 subject develops DLT, 3 subjects will be added to the cohort, and if no DLT occurs in the last 3 subjects, the dose will be increased to the next dose. If 2 or more subjects in 3 or 6 subjects in a dose group develop DLT, the dose escalation will be stopped, and the previous dose of the dose will be the MTD. DLT is defined as a treatment-related adverse event of Grade 3 or higher, based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0., Within 28 days after the first dose.|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), If 2 or more subjects in 3 or 6 subjects in a dose group develop DLT, the dose escalation will be stopped , and the previous dose of the dose will be the MTD. If the MTD is not reached in this trial, the researchers will discuss whether to continue the subsequent escalation trial., Within 28 days after the first dose.
Progression- free survival ( PFS ), PFS assessed by investigators according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., Within approximately 48 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR assessed by investigators according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., Within approximately 48 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR assessed by investigators according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria., Within approximately 48 months|Area Under the Curve (AUC), The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC) will be measured to evaluate the systemic exposure of bortezomib and cisplatin. Blood samples will be collected at specified time points to calculate AUC using non-compartmental analysis., Blood samples for PK analysis were collected within 60 minutes before dosing, at 0.5, 2, 6, 24, 72 hours, and on days 8, 15, and 22 after the start of dosing.|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax), The maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax) of bortezomib and cisplatin will be determined from the collected blood samples. Cmax reflects the peak concentration of the drug in plasma after administration., Blood samples for PK analysis were collected within 60 minutes before dosing, at 0.5, 2, 6, 24, 72 hours, and on days 8, 15, and 22 after the start of dosing.|Time to Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax), The time to reach the maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) will be assessed for bortezomib and cisplatin. Tmax will be determined directly from the plasma concentration-time data., Blood samples for PK analysis were collected within 60 minutes before dosing, at 0.5, 2, 6, 24, 72 hours, and on days 8, 15, and 22 after the start of dosing.|Half-Life (T1/2), The terminal elimination half-life (T1/2) of bortezomib and cisplatin will be calculated using non-compartmental analysis. T1/2 represents the time required for the plasma concentration of the drug to decrease by 50%., Blood samples for PK analysis were collected within 60 minutes before dosing, at 0.5, 2, 6, 24, 72 hours, and on days 8, 15, and 22 after the start of dosing.
This a phase 1 study to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of cisplatin combined with bortezomib in patients with recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.