Pembrolizumab and All-Trans Retinoic Acid Combination Treatment of Advanced Melanoma
This is a Phase I/Ib investigator-initiated open label of the combination of VESANOID and pembrolizumab treatment.
Stage IV Melanoma|Stage III Melanoma|Advanced Melanoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab with All-Trans Retinoic Acid
Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD) and the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of Pembrolizumab, MTD is defined as the highest dose level with no more than 3 DLTs reported in 6 DLT-evaluable subjects. A target toxicity rate of approximately 33% of all 24 patients will be used to establish the RP2D. This is one part of the pembrolizumab-ATRA combination treatment., 21 days from first dose of combined treatment|Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD) and the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of All-Trans Retinoic Acid, MTD is defined as the highest dose level with no more than 3 DLT reported in 6 DLT-evaluable subjects. A target toxicity rate of approximately 33% of all 24 patients will be used to establish the RP2D. This dose is one part of the pembrolizumab-ATRA combination treatment., 21 days from first dose of combined treatment
Number of Patients With a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) for the Combined Treatment of Pembrolizumab and All-Trans Retinoic Acid, Toxicity is evaluated according to NCI CTCAE Version 4.0. A dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as any grade 3 or higher adverse event related to VESNOID (the all-trans retinoic acid) and/or pembrolizumab., 2 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival was calculated from treatment start date to data cutoff date., up to 36 months|Percent Change in Anti-Tumor Activity, Anti-tumor activity will be determined by the percent change in MDSC (immunosuppressive myeloid-derived suppressor cells) frequency in peripheral blood of advanced melanoma patients undergoing the combined treatment of pembrolizumab and All-Trans Retinoic Acid (ATRA). Pre-treatment levels will be compared to post-treatment levels, where post-treatment means 4-6 weeks after stopping ATRA. MDSCs include CD45+, CD3-, CD19-, CD56-, CD11b+, CD33+, and HLA-DR-/low.

In the original protocol, suppressive function was included as part of this outcome measure to assess anti-tumor activity. However, this analysis could not be performed because the decrease in concentration of MDSCs after treatment resulted in inadequate data for the planned assays., Pre-treatment (0-30 days before first ATRA administration) and post-treatment (84-130 days after first ATRA administration)
Primary Objective

* To identify the MTD and RP2D of the combination of pembrolizumab and ATRA.

Secondary Objective:

* Describe the safety and toxicity of combined treatment with pembrolizumab and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) \[brand name VESANOID\] in melanoma patients.
* To assess the anti-tumor activity in terms of a). The reduction in MDSC (immunosuppressive myeloid -derived suppressor cells) frequency and suppressive function (measured as a continuous variable)in peripheral blood of advanced melanoma patients undergoing pembrolizumab and VESANOID combination therapy. b). progression free survival.

Exploratory Objective

* To determine the clinical outcomes with tumor-specific T cell responses.