The Effectiveness, Cost-effectiveness, and Budget Impact of Interventions to Improve the Delivery of Cervical Cancer Screening in Puerto Rico.
Cervical cancer incidence is increasing dramatically (2.5% per year) in Puerto Rico (PR), with increased occurrence of regional (1.7% per year) and distant (4.7% per year) stage cancer, which reflects a real increase and indicates missed screening opportunities. Unfortunately, 80% of cervical cancer cases diagnosed in PR occur among low-income women covered by Medicaid or Medicare, who also have a 70% greater likelihood of being diagnosed with cervical cancer. Cervical cancer screening uptake continues to decline in PR, particularly among low-income Medicaid enrollees, mainly seen by government clinics. Barriers to cervical cancer screening in PR are mainly due to personal (lack of transportation, obesity-related embarrassment) and environmental (repeated disaster events that hampered screening uptake and made recovery slow) factors. The absence of evidence on the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and budget impact of patient navigators has limited its adoption among government clinics in this US territory. Multicomponent interventions that can address common screening barriers and improve screening participation in clinic-based settings or avert the need for a clinical-based visit could help improve screening uptake and follow-up care. Our preliminary work suggests the feasibility and acceptability of Human Papillomavirus (HPV) self-sampling in PR. We now propose a hybrid type 1 effectiveness-implementation study using a four-arm multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) conducted within government OBGYN clinics in PR. We will assess the effectiveness of patient reminders plus patient navigation and HPV self-collection (individually and in combination) compared to patient reminders alone in increasing cervical cancer screening, timely colposcopy, and cervical precancer treatment (Aim 1). The secondary aim will evaluate key implementation outcomes, including patient and provider receptivity, reach, level of implementation and fidelity, and sustainment intentions. We will then develop an open-cohort micro-simulation model to evaluate the population impact, cost-effectiveness, and budget impact of alternative strategies (Aim 2) to inform their potential applicability at delivery organization, community, and territory levels. This study will provide much-needed knowledge that is necessary to successfully facilitate the adoption and sustained integration of optimal strategies that will improve cervical cancer screening participation and reduce magnifying disparities in Puerto Rico.
Cervical Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: Arm 2: Patient Navigator|BEHAVIORAL: HPV self-collection kit
Intervention Effectiveness, Proportion of women who complete cervical cancer screening (attending in-clinic cervical cancer screening) and the proportion of women who completed/returned HPV self-collection kit (Arms 3 and 4)., Within 6 months after a patient is recruited
Screening Adherence after abnormal results, Proportion of women who receive a colposcopy after an abnormal Pap Test or positive clinic-based HPV result and the proportion of women who receive treatment after histologically diagnosed HSIL., Within 18 months after a patient is recruited.
Other tertiary outcomes, Revision of the medical record of the participant will permit the evaluation of the following clinical outcomes: Proportion of women with a) abnormal Pap test results, b) cervical high risk HPV infection and c) whose colposcopy results are HSIL/Cancer., Within 18 months after a patient is recruited.
Aim 1. Conduct a four-arm multi-site randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effectiveness of three interventions, including patient reminders plus patient navigation and self-collection of HPV test (individually and in combination), compared to patient reminders alone on:

1a. Cervical cancer screening (clinic-based pap test/HPV co-testing) uptake among women and completion of HPV self-collection kit.

1. b. Timely colposcopy and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion (HSIL) treatment among women with abnormal screening results. Secondary analyses will examine implementation outcomes, including patient and provider receptivity, reach, level of implementation and fidelity, and sustainment intentions.

   Aim 2. Evaluate the population impact, cost-effectiveness, and budget impact of each intervention strategy compared to patient reminders.
2. a. Develop an open-cohort micro-simulation model of cervical cancer natural history, screening, and treatment outcomes among women in PR and evaluate population impact (incidence and mortality trends) and the cost-effectiveness of alternative strategies.

2b. Evaluate the budget impact of implementing an optimal screening strategy compared to the current intervention mix (at a delivery organization, community, and territory levels).