Irinotecan Plus E7820 Versus FOLFIRI in Second-Line Therapy in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Colon or Rectal Cancer
The purpose of the Phase Ib portion is to find out the highest dose of study drug that can safely be given when tested in a small group of subjects.

The purpose of the Phase II portion is to find out how safe the study drug is when taken at the highest dose in a larger group of subjects.
Colon Cancer|Rectal Cancer
DRUG: FOLFIRI|DRUG: E7820
Phase 1b: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of E7820 With Irinotecan as Per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.0, MTD: maximum dose that was determined to be safe and tolerable for Phase 2.If two dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) occurred at any dose level,MTD: preceding dose/intermediate dose.DLT was graded according to CTCAE v4.0. Includes \>= Grade 3(G3) peripheral neuropathy,\>=G3 nausea/vomiting despite optimal anti-emetic treatment, any other non-hematologic toxicity of \>=G3(except alopecia, single abnormal laboratory values Investigator judged unlikely related to study therapy, had no clinical correlate, resolved in 7 days, hypersensitivity reaction to any of compounds),Grade 4 neutropenia lasting over 7 days,febrile neutropenia(defined as fever \>=38.5 degrees Celsius with absolute neutrophil count below 1.0\*10\^9 per liter, G3 thrombocytopenia with nontraumatic bleeding(without therapeutic systemic anticoagulation)requiring platelet transfusion,Grade 4 thrombocytopenia (with/without nontraumatic bleeding),any study drug-related death,other toxicity dose escalation committee believed to be DLT., Up to 12 cycles (each cycle length =14 days)|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), TEAE is defined as an adverse event that had an onset date, or a worsening in severity on or after the first dose of study drug up to the end of the study. Number of participants with TEAEs are reported based on safety assessments of laboratory tests, physical examination, examining bowel movements, regular measurement of vital signs, eastern cooperative oncology group-performance status and electrocardiogram parameter values. SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: resulted in death; life threatening required inpatient hospitalization; resulted in persistent, significant disability; is congenital anomaly/birth defect or medically important due to other reasons than above mentioned criteria. Number of participants with TEAEs and SAEs were reported., From the first dose of study drug up to 28 days after last dose (Up to 1 year and 3 months)
Phase 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization of a participant until the sooner of (1) the date of first documented progression of such participant's disease (PD) based on Investigator assessments according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumor (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. or; (2) the date of such participant's death due to any cause. PD is defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase or 5 millimeter (mm) increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study) recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From date of randomization up to 1 year and 2 months|Phase 2: Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from the date of randomization of a participant until the date of death of such participant, regardless of the actual cause of the participant's death., From date of randomization up to 1 year and 2 months|Phase 2: Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is defined as time from the date of randomization of a participant until the date of first documented progression of such participant's disease. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking in reference the smallest summed longest diameters on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of 1 or more new lesions was also considered progression., From date of randomization up to 1 year and 2 months|Phase 2: Percentage of Participants With Overall Response, ORR is defined as percentage of participants in the study whose best overall response is either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST v1.1. CR is defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline summed longest diameters., From date of randomization up to 1 year and 2 months
This open-label, multicenter, randomized study will consist of a Phase Ib portion: a safety run-in period with 3 ascending doses of E7820; and a Phase II portion: a randomized 2-arm design. Approximately 95 patients with measurable, nonresectable locally advanced or metastatic colorectal adenocarcinoma, who have failed first-line chemotherapy, will be enrolled in the study (approximately 12 to 15 patients in the Phase Ib portion and 80 patients in the Phase II portion). Patients will only participate in either the Phase Ib or the Phase II portion of the study. Patients will receive up to a planned total of 12 cycles of study treatment unless there is occurrence of progressive disease, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, withdrawal by the Investigator, lost to follow-up, or death, whichever occurs first. After 12 cycles, patients who demonstrate clinical benefit may continue single agent E7820 for long as clinical benefit is sustained and the treatment is well tolerated. If the treating physician does not feel comfortable discontinuing chemotherapy after 12 cycles, further chemotherapy may be considered following discussion with the medical monitor and sponsor.