Weight Maintenance With Dipeptidyl Peptidase 4 (DPP4) Inhibitor Sitagliptin in Combination With Metformin After Liragludite Induced Weight Loss
Weight reduction is the most important treatment target in obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), yet it is usually hardly achievable with lifestyle intervention alone. Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist (RA) liraglutide was recently approved as an anti-obesity drug but with some limitations, which include high cost and the lack of long-term efficacy and safety data regarding weight reduction. In addition, weight loss achieved with liraglutide is often non-sustainable after treatment cessation. Although DPP-4 inhibitors are weight neutral, they reduced weight regain in animals previously treated with GLP-1 RAs if they were switched to DPP-4 inhibitor rather than placebo. The aim is to evaluate whether DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin in combination with metformin reduce body weight regain more effectively than metformin alone in obese PCOS who had been previously treated with liraglutide.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Body Weight
DRUG: sitagliptin and metformin|DRUG: Metformin
Change in body weight., Patient's body weight was measured at the baseline and after 12 weeks of clinical trial.
Change in body mass indey (BMI)., The BMI was calculated as the body mass divided by the square of the body height (kg/m2), Patient's body height was measured at the baseline. Body weight was measured at the baseline and after 12 weeks of clinical trial.
Weight reduction is the most important treatment target in obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), yet it is usually hardly achievable with lifestyle intervention alone. Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist (RA) liraglutide was recently approved as an anti-obesity drug but with some limitations, which include high cost and the lack of long-term efficacy and safety data regarding weight reduction. In addition, weight loss achieved with liraglutide is often non-sustainable after treatment cessation. Although DPP-4 inhibitors are weight neutral, they reduced weight regain in animals previously treated with GLP-1 RAs if they were switched to DPP-4 inhibitor rather than placebo. The aim is to evaluate whether DPP-4 inhibitor sitagliptin in combination with metformin reduce body weight regain more effectively than metformin alone in obese PCOS who had been previously treated with liraglutide.