Effect of Qigong on the Symptom Clusters of Dyspnea, Fatigue, and Anxiety.
Effects of Qigong on symptom clusters of dyspnea, fatigue, and anxiety in Vietnamese lung cancer patients: A randomized control trial
Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell|Lung Cancer Non-Small Cell Stage 0|Lung Cancer, Nonsmall Cell, Stage I|Lung Cancer Non-Small Cell Stage II|Lung Cancer, Limited Stage Small Cell
BEHAVIORAL: Qigong
A cluster symptom of dyspnea, fatigue, and anxiety in lung cancer patients., * Dyspnea is described as "an uncomfortable awareness of breathing" (DiSalvo, Joyce, Tyson, Culkin, \& Mackay, 2008). Cancer Dyspnoea Scale will be used to measure dypsnea in this study.
* Fatigue is defined as "a subjective feeling of tiredness, weakness or lack of energy" (Radbruch et al., 2008). Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue (FACT-F) (Yellen et al., 1997) will be used to measure fatigue in this study.
* Anxiety is defined as "The apprehensive anticipation of future danger or misfortune accompanied by a feeling of dysphoria or somatic symptoms of tension" (American Psychiatric Association, 2005). The Anxiety subscale of the Depression, Anxiety, and Stress Scale 21 (DASS-21) (Sharp et al., 2013) will be used to measure anxiety in this study., 12 weeks
Cough, Cough is "a forced expulsive manoeuvre, usually against a closed glottis and which is associated with a characteristic sound" (McGarvey \& Morice, 2006; Pavord \& Chung, 2008). Manchester Cough in Lung Cancer Scale (MCLCS) (Molassiotis et al., 2012) will be used to measure cough in this study., 12 weeks|Quality of Life, The World Health Organization (WHO) defined health as "a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity". European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer -Quality of life questionnaire - Core and Lung module (Fayers et al., 2012) will be used to measure quality of life in this study., 12 weeks
Background: Patients with lung cancer experience a variety of symptoms. The number of symptoms ranged from 7.8 to 13.2, and most of them were at a moderate level of severity. Dyspnea, fatigue, and anxiety arose as the most problematic symptoms of lung cancer. Non-pharmacological approaches to manage of symptom among lung cancer patients showed either no or mild effects. Qigong is hypothesized to alleviate these adverse outcomes; however, all trial analyzed on a single symptom, and not lung cancer patients, and there have not been many well-designed randomized control trials. The objectives of this study are following: 1) to assess the effect of Qigong on managing dypsnea, fatigue, and anxiety (as a cluster) in lung cancer patients; 2) to explore the effect of Qigong on cough another common symptom linked with dyspnea, fatigue as a cluster and quality of life (QOL) in lung cancer patients.

Methods: 156 subjects with lung cancer (stage I - IV) will be randomized to either the Qigong group or the wait-list control group. Participants in the Qigong group will conduct Qigong practice 5 times per week for 6 weeks, and participants in the control group will receive usual care. The primary outcome (dypsnea, fatigue, and anxiety), secondary outcomes (cough and QOL) will be assessed at baseline, post-intervention, and post 6-weeks of follow-up.

Discussion: This study will be the first randomized trial to investigate the effectiveness of Qigong for management symptom cluster in lung cancer patients. The finding of this study will help to establish the optimal approach for the care of lung cancer patients.