Low-dose Bevacizumab With HSRT vs BVZ Alone for GBM at First Recurrence
This randomized phase II trial studies how well lose dose bevacizumab with Hypofractionated Stereotactic Radiotherapy (HSRT) works versus bevacizumab alone in treating patients with glioblastoma at first recurrence. The primary endpoint is 6-month progress-free survivaloverall survival after the treatment. Secondary endpoints included overall survival, objective response rate, cognitive function, quality of life and toxicity.
Glioma|Recurrent Glioma
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Stereotactic Radiotherapy|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Progression-free Survival rate at 6 Months, Prgression was defined using Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Criteria. Progression-free at 6 months means patient alive without progression at 6 months. Survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization to six months
Overall Survival, Survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization to last follow-up, up to approximately 24 months|Progression-free Survival, Prgression was defined using Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Criteria. Progression-free survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first progression, death, or last known follow-up (censored). Progression-free survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization to last follow-up, up to approximately 24 months|Objective response rate, ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) prior to progression or any further therapy., Bimonthly up to intolerance the toxicity or progressive disease (PD), up to approximately 24 months|Number of Participants With Grade 3+ Toxicity rate, Adverse events were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. Estimated using an exact binomial distribution together with 95% confidence interval. The difference between the two groups will be tested using a chi square test., Bimonthly up to intolerance the toxicity or PD, up to approximately 24 months|Quality of Life score (QoL), EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3.0) questionnaire to evaluate the quality of life. All scales range in score from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high / healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status / QoL represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale / item represents a high level of symptomatology / problems., Bimonthly up to intolerance the toxicity or PD, up to approximately 24 months|Cognitive function, Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE, score range 0 to 30) to evaluate the cognitive function. Any score of 24 or more (out of 30) indicates a normal cognition. Below this, scores can indicate severe (≤9 points), moderate (10-18 points) or mild (19-23 points) cognitive impairment., Bimonthly up to intolerance the toxicity or PD, up to approximately 24 months
To establish an improvement in 6-month pfs in recurrent glioblastoma patients receiving low-dose bevacizumab and re-irradiation compared with patients receiving bevacizumab alone.