Survivorship Care Planning in Improving the Quality of Life in Breast Cancer Survivors
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies survivorship care planning in improving the quality of life in breast cancer survivors. Survivorship care planning may reduce stress and improve the well-being and quality of life of cancer survivors.
Breast Cancer|Cancer Survivor
OTHER: educational intervention|OTHER: counseling intervention|PROCEDURE: standard follow-up care|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Proportion of BCS accessing a SCP from their oncology provider, Fisher's exact test will be used to test the null hypothesis (at least 40% of trial participants will have access to SCP)., At 6 months
Adherence to SCP guidelines, Fisher's exact test will be used to test the null hypothesis (at least 25% of participants reporting adherence to SCP guidelines)., At 12 months|Proportion of BCS accessing a SCP from their oncology provider, Fisher's exact test will be used to test the null hypothesis (at least 60% of trial participants will have access to SCP)., At 12 months
Develop a clinically and psychosocially responsive SCP-BCS template in English and a linguistically response bilingual version (English-Spanish), The acceptability, utility, and format preference will also be assessed. A rating score will be generated for acceptability and utility and 95% confidence intervals for the proportion of BCS rating score at \>= 4 will be assessed., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Test the effectiveness of the navigation intervention and survivorship care plan (SCP)-breast cancer survivors (BCS) template booklet on accessing and adhering to SCP-BCS guidelines compared to the control group receiving usual care and the SCP-BCS template booklet.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Develop a clinically and psychosocially responsive SCP-breast cancer survivors (SCP-BCS) template in English and English-Spanish adopted from American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO)-SCP.

II. Assess the acceptability, utility and format preference (electronic vs paper) of the SCP-BCS template.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants receive SCP-BCS template booklet and receive counseling sessions with a patient navigator for 40 minutes twice weekly for 4 sessions.

ARM II: Participants receive SCP-BCS template booklet and receive standard follow-up care.

After completion so study treatment, participants are followed up at 6 and 12 months.