Oxaliplatin, Leucovorin Calcium, and Fluorouracil With or Without Celecoxib in Treating Patients With Stage III Colon Cancer Previously Treated With Surgery
PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying giving oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil together to compare how well they work when given together with or without celecoxib in treating patients with stage III colon cancer previously treated with surgery.

RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Celecoxib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether giving oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil is more effective with or without celecoxib in treating colon cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: celecoxib|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|OTHER: placebo|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin
Disease-free Survival, Disease-Free Survival (DFS) is defined as the time of randomization until documented progression or death from any cause. The endpoint of this trial is to compare disease-free survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to standard chemotherapy only (FOLFOX; Arm A and Arm C) or standard chemotherapy (FOLFOX) with 3 years of celecoxib 400 mg daily (Arm B and Arm D). The percentage of patients who were alive and disease free after 3 years are reported here. A log-rank test stratified with the stratification factors was used to compare disease-free survival (celecoxib vs placebo), At 3 years of follow-up
Overall Survival, Overall Survival (DFS) is defined as the time of randomization until documented death from any cause. The endpoint is to compare overall survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to standard chemotherapy only (FOLFOX; Arm A and Arm C) or standard chemotherapy (FOLFOX) with 5 years of celecoxib 400 mg daily (Arm B and Arm D). The percentage of patients who were alive after 3 years are reported here., up to 3 years from registration
OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to number of positive lymph nodes\* (1-3 vs 4 or more) and concurrent regular low-dose of aspirin (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms. Please see the "Arms" section for more information. In all arms, treatment with celecoxib or placebo continues for 3 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Blood and tissue samples maybe collected for biomarker analysis and pharmacogenomic studies. The primary and secondary objectives for the research study are described below.

Primary objective:

1. To compare disease-free survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to standard chemotherapy only FOLFOX or standard chemotherapy FOLFOX with 3 years of celecoxib 400 mg daily.

Secondary objectives:

1. To contribute to an international prospective pooled analysis that will compare disease-free survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to 6 treatments of adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy or 12 treatments of adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy.
2. To compare overall survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to standard chemotherapy only (FOLFOX) or standard chemotherapy (FOLFOX) with 3 years of celecoxib 400 mg daily.
3. To contribute to an international prospective pooled analysis that will compare overall survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to 6 treatments of adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy or 12 treatments of adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy or 12 treatments of adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy.
4. To assess toxicities of celecoxib as maintenance adjuvant therapy in patients with stage III colon cancer.
5. To assess differences in cardiovascular-specific events with celecoxib versus placebo in a population of stage III colon cancer survivors.
6. To evaluate differences in toxicities, particularly cumulative peripheral neuropathy, for patients treated with 6 treatments of FOLFOX compared to those treated with 12 treatments of FOLFOX.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 6 years.