Infliximab for Treatment of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Colitis
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare the safety and effectiveness of infliximab compared to steroids for the treatment of immune checkpoint inhibitor-induced colitis (ICI colitis) in patients with stage III/IV skin cancer.

The main questions this study aims to answer are:

* How many patients treated with infliximab experience steroid-free disease resolution after 7 weeks?
* How many patients treated with steroids experience steroid-free disease resolution after 7 weeks?
Melanoma Stage III|Melanoma Stage IV|Skin Cancer Stage III|Skin Cancer Stage IV|Drug-Induced Colitis|Drug Toxicity|Immune-related Adverse Event
DRUG: Infliximab|DRUG: Methylprednisolone|DRUG: Prednisone
Proportion of patients with Steroid-Free Colitis, Proportion of Patients with Steroid-Free Colitis at seven weeks with steroid-free colitis remission defined as less than 7.5 mg a day of prednisone or equivalent and grade-1 or lower symptoms., 7 weeks
Proportion of Participants with Treatment Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE 5., National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, 6 Months|The proportion of patients requiring secondary immune suppression-Infliximab, patients randomly assigned to infliximab, secondary immune support will be defined as requiring subsequent treatment with steroids. The proportions of patients in each treatment arm requiring secondary immune suppression will be summarized and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals, 7 Weeks|The proportion of patients requiring secondary immune suppression-Steroids, patients randomly assigned to steroids, secondary immune support will be defined as requiring subsequent treatment with steroids. The proportions of patients in each treatment arm requiring secondary immune suppression will be summarized and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals, 7 Weeks|Time to steroid-free remission, The initial analysis of steroid-free remission will be based on cumulative incidence (1-Kaplan-Meier estimates)., randomization to grade-1 or lower symptoms of colitis and less than 7.5 mg a day of prednisone or equivalent or up to 6 months|Rate of Symptom Remission at 72 hours, The proportion of patients in each treatment arm who have colitis symptom reduction to grade-1 or less within 72 hours of starting randomized treatment will be summarized and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals. The treatment arms will be compared using Fisher's exact tests., 72 hours|Rate of Symptom Remission at 4 Weeks, The proportion of patients in each treatment arm who have colitis symptom reduction to grade-1 or less within 72 hours of starting randomized treatment will be summarized and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals. The treatment arms will be compared using Fisher's exact tests., 4 weeks|Proportion of patients with colectomy or colitis-specific mortality, The proportions of patients with colectomy or colitis-specific mortality (investigator assessed) will be presented by treatment arm with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals, 7 weeks|Cumulative steroid exposure, Cumulative steroid exposure over time for each patient will be calculated by adding the number of doses multiplied by strength of dose over the total follow-up time. Steroid exposure will be summarized descriptively for each treatment arm, and compared using a Wilcoxon rank-sum test.

With 20 patients per treatment arm, a Wilcoxon rank-sum test will have 80% power to detect a 41difference in cumulative steroid exposure that is 0.85 times the common standard deviation, assuming a one-sided, type-I error of 10, 7 weeks|Progression Free Survival, summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier and compared using stratified log-rank tests, duration of time from start of randomization to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first or up to 24 months.|Overall Survival, summarized using the method of Kaplan-Meier and compared using stratified log-rank tests, the duration of time from start of randomization to time of death or up to 24 months|Overall Response Rate, Response rates will be summarized by treatment arm and presented with 90% exact binomial confidence intervals. The comparison of response rates between treatment arms will use Fisher's exact test, proportion of evaluable patients who achieve either a (complete response) CR or (partial response) PR or up to 24 Months
This is a phase II, randomized, signal-detection trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the drugs infliximab, methylprednisolone, and prednisone to manage the side of effect of colitis caused by immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) that target a protein called CTLA-4. An example of one of these ICIs is ipilimumab, which has been approved by the FDA to treat metastatic melanoma.

The names of the treatments involved in this study are:

* Infliximab
* Methylprednisolone
* Prednisone

The FDA has approved infliximab, methylprednisolone, and prednisone to treat many conditions affecting the immune system, including colitis.

Participants will receive a CTLA-4 inhibitor, like ipilimumab, and any other cancer treatments as part of their regular care for stage III/IV skin cancer at the discretion of treating oncologist.

Participants who enroll in this study will undergo one or more flexible sigmoidoscopies or colonoscopies as part of their clinical care. The first of these procedures would occur at the time of study enrollment, and the second may occur after several weeks of treatment at the discretion of the study doctor. During these procedures, biopsies will be collected for clinical purposes as well as for research purposes. Blood will also be collected for research at the time of enrollment and at the time of study completion. Any extra samples for research would only be collected if it is safe for the participant.

Participants will also complete weekly follow-ups either over the phone or in-person that may last about 10 minutes. During these visits, participants will be asked about any new symptoms or changes in their health, their medications, and their GI symptoms. Blood for research may be collected at one or more of these visits if it coincides with a scheduled clinical blood draw.

Participants are expected to be on study treatment for approximately 7 weeks. Once participants complete the study treatment, the study team will review their medical records every 6 months for any changes in their health.

It is expected that about 42 people will take part in this research study.