Randomized, Multicenter, 2-Dose Level. Open-Label, Phase IIa Study With the Intraperitoneally Infused Trifunctional Bispecific Antibody Removab(TM) (Anti-EpCAM x Anti-CD3) to Select the Better Dose Level in Platinum Refractory Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Patients
Patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, fallopian tube or peritoneal cancer who receive surgical cytoreduction and platinum/taxane containing chemotherapy have a significant chance of entering complete clinical remission but about 70% will eventually relapse. Many patients respond to additional cytotoxic treatment with partial or complete responses, yet approximately 100% of these patients will ultimately progress. Novel consolidation strategies following treatment for recurrent disease are needed and an immunologic approach is an attractive option.EpCAM is expressed in a large number of epithelial ovarian cancer, fallopian tube or peritoneal cancer tissues. Thus targeting these cancers with an anti-EpCAM antibody is a promising innovative therapeutic approach.
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Neoplasms|Peritoneal Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: anti-EpCAM x anti-CD3 (removab)
Selection of better dose level based on the confirmed tumor response.
Evaluation of safety and tolerability|Effects of removab(TM)
Patients with epithelial ovarian cancer, fallopian tube or peritoneal cancer who receive surgical cytoreduction and platinum/taxane containing chemotherapy have a significant chance of entering complete clinical remission but about 70% will eventually relapse. Many patients respond to additional cytotoxic treatment with partial or complete responses, yet approximately 100% of these patients will ultimately progress. Novel consolidation strategies following treatment for recurrent disease are needed and an immunologic approach is an attractive option.EpCAM is expressed in a large number of epithelial ovarian cancer, fallopian tube or peritoneal cancer tissues. Thus targeting these cancers with an anti-EpCAM antibody is a promising innovative therapeutic approach.