A Phase II Trial of Bicalutamide in Patients Receiving Intravesical BCG for Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
This is a phase II randomized controlled clinical trial comparing standard induction BCG versus bicalutamide and standard induction BCG among patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer.
Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Bicalutamide|BIOLOGICAL: Control Arm
Rate of bladder tumour recurrence, To time to bladder tumor recurrence compared to the standard of care induction BCG, 3 years
Incidence of tumour progression, To compare the incidence of tumor progression between the intervention and control arms, 3 years|Number of tumor recurrences, To compare the overall incidence of tumor recurrences between intervention and control arms, 3 years|Number of tumours at first recurrence, Evaluation of the number of tumours at first recurrence between the two arms, 3 years|Quality of life (QLQ-C30), Evaluation of quality of life with QLQ-C30 questionnaire (EORTC Core Quality of Life questionnaire). The scale scores range from 0 to 100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high level of functioning, whereas a high score for a symptom scale/single item represents a high level of symptom, 3 years|Evaluation of urinary symptoms, Evaluation of urinary symptoms with International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) . questionnaire. The total score can range from 0 to 35 (0 being asymptomatic and 35 being very symptomatic)., 3 years
Bladder cancer is the second most common urological cancer after prostate cancer. Non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NIMBC) is the most common form (\~ 75%). The standard treatment involves the use of intravesical instillation of bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG). Nonetheless, 30-40% of the patients still relapse or progress. Clinical and laboratory research suggests that medications targeting the androgen receptor, such as bicalutamide, combined with the standard treatment with BCG may decrease the recurrence rate of NMIBC.

The study is composed of two cohort A (open-label, around 40 patients) and B (double-blind, with placebo, around 120 patients).

In the cohort A, the participants will be randomized to either the treatment with 1) daily intake of 150 mg bicalutamide for 3 months overlapping with the 6 cycles of intravesical instillations of BCG or 2) the standard of care of 6 cycles of intravesical instillation BCG.

In the cohort B, the participants will be randomized to either the treatment with 1) daily intake of 150 mg bicalutamide for 3 months overlapping with the 6 cycles of intravesical instillations of BCG or 2) daily intake of 150mg placebo for 3 months + the standard of care of 6 cycles of intravesical instillation BCG.

The participation in this trial should last 36 months from the screening visit to the last follow-up visit.