Study of Telotristat Etiprate (LX1606) in Participants With Symptomatic Carcinoid Syndrome Not Managed by Stable-Dose Octreotide Therapy
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of telotristat etiprate (LX1606) versus a placebo control in participants with symptomatic carcinoid syndrome not managed by stable-dose long-acting octreotide therapy. Following determination of the maximally tolerated or effective dose, cohort expansion will occur to confirm effect on symptoms and safety profile.
Carcinoid Syndrome
DRUG: Telotristat etiprate|DRUG: Octreotide LAR Depot|DRUG: Placebo
Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE) and Any Drug-related TEAE in the Core Phase, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug-related. A TEAE was an AE reported after the first dose of randomized treatment on Day 1., Up to 4 Weeks Core Phase|Number of Participants With Any TEAE in the Open-Label Extension Phase, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. A TEAE was an AE reported after receiving treatment., Up to 180 weeks in the open-label extension phase
Change From Baseline in Mean Number of Bowel Movements (BMs) Per Day, Participants recorded the number of BMs per day in a daily diary. The total number of BMs per day were averaged over the 4-week period. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to Week 4|Change From Baseline in Weekly Mean Stool Form, Participants recorded stool form in a daily diary using a 6-point scale (0-none,1-hard, 2-firm, 3-soft, 4-loose, 5-watery). A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to Week 4|Change From Baseline in Percentage of Days Per Week Experiencing a Sensation of Urgency to Defecate, Participants recorded the sensation of urgency to defecate (Yes or No) in a daily diary. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to Week 4|Change From Baseline in Number of Cutaneous Flushing Episodes, Participants recorded the number of daily flushing episodes per day in a daily diary. The total number of flushing episodes per day were averaged over the 4-week period. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to Week 4|Change From Baseline in Severity of Abdominal Pain or Discomfort, Participants recorded the severity of abdominal pain or discomfort in a daily diary assessed using a 4-point scale (0-none, 1-mild, 2-moderate, 3-severe). A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to Week 4|Change From Baseline in Urinary 5-hydroxyindoleacetic Acid (u5-HIAA), u5-HIAA is a standard test used in clinical practice to assess the neuroendocrine tumor (NET) activity and is collected as a 24-hour urine specimen. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to Week 4|Change From Baseline in Chromogranin A, Blood samples were collected for assessment of Chromogranin A level. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to Week 4|Number of Participants Reporting Improvement in the Subjective Global Assessment of Symptoms Associated With Carcinoid Syndrome, Participants were asked to answer the following question: "In the past 7 days, have you had adequate relief of your carcinoid syndrome bowel complaints such as diarrhea, urgent need to have a bowel movement, abdominal pain, or discomfort?". The number of participants who answered Yes are reported., Week 4|Change From Baseline in Frequency of Rescue for Short-acting Octreotide Use/Day, Participants recorded details (location and frequency of injection) of subcutaneous injections of rescue, short-acting octreotide, if taken, in the daily diary. A negative change from Baseline indicates improvement., Baseline to Week 4|Time to First Rescue, Short-acting Octreotide, Time to the first subcutaneous injections of rescue, short-acting octreotide was determined from the participant's daily diary., Baseline to Week 4|Number of Participants Experiencing Complete Response at Week 4, Complete Response to treatment was defined as one of the following: 1. Less than 4 bowel movements per day; or 2. A decrease in daily bowel movements that is ≥ 50% from baseline; or 3. A positive response to the global assessment question ("In the past 7 days, have you had adequate relief of your carcinoid syndrome bowel complaints such as diarrhea, urgent need to have a bowel movement, abdominal pain or discomfort?") for each of the last 2 weeks of the Treatment Period., Baseline to Week 4
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of telotristat etiprate (LX1606) versus a placebo control in participants with symptomatic carcinoid syndrome not managed by stable-dose long-acting octreotide therapy. Following determination of the maximally tolerated or effective dose, cohort expansion will occur to confirm effect on symptoms and safety profile.