Application of mRNA Immunotherapy Technology in Hepatitis B Virus-related Refractory Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of mRNA vaccine for HBV-positive Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma.
Liver Cancer|Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: HBV mRNA vaccine
Adverse events, Adverse events defined as the number of participants with adverse events according, up to 12 months|Objective response rate, ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve a response, which can either be complete response (complete disappearance of lesions) or partial response (reduction in the sum of maximal tumor diameters by at least 30% or more), up to 12 months|Progress-Free Survival, PFS is defined as the time from the administration of the first dose to first disease, up to 12 months|Overall Survival, OS is defined as the time from the administration of the first dose to death, up to 12 months]
Hepatocellular carcinoma is a common malignant tumor of the digestive system worldwide and is particularly prevalent in China. More than 80% of hepatocellular carcinoma patients in China have concomitant hepatitis B virus infection. However, there are limited effective treatments for hepatocellular carcinoma that have failed standard treatment, and the prognosis for these patients is poor. About 350 million people worldwide are chronically infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV), and chronic HBV infection accounts for at least 50% of hepatocellular carcinoma cases worldwide. Therefore, anti-HBV can be a potential target for hepatocellular carcinoma.

The mRNA vaccines are a highly promising novel anti-tumor approach. The applicant team of this project has carried out research on raw materials and preparation process, vaccine stability, quality standard, delivery vector construction, and anti-tumor mechanism of action of mRNA immune formulation in the early stage. Now we have completed the optimized design of mRNA raw materials, and the construction and optimization of the mRNA delivery vector. The tumor therapeutic mRNA immune formulation with high efficiency, safety, scalable preparation, and quality control has been selected and preclinical evaluation has been completed to verify its safety and efficacy. The project has constructed mRNA vaccines, and no similar therapeutic method or product has been reported in the international arena.

This project proposes to conduct a phase I clinical study based on the previous study to include patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who have failed second-line standard treatment or cannot receive standard treatment. A dose-escalation trial will be conducted, and one effective dose will be selected for a fixed-dose trial to explore the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of mRNA immunotherapy technology for clinical application. Project implementation is expected to benefit a wide range of hepatocellular carcinoma patients and improve their prognosis.