Radiofrequency Ablation in Treating Patients With Bone Metastases
RATIONALE: Radiofrequency ablation may be effective in decreasing pain from bone metastases.

PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of radiofrequency ablation in decreasing pain in patients who have bone metastases.
Metastatic Cancer|Pain|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
PROCEDURE: pain therapy|PROCEDURE: radiofrequency ablation
Adverse events, Estimate the adverse event rate due to RFA within 1 month follow-up period., 1 month post procedure
Pain intensity, pain intensity as measured by VASPI Scale, 1 month post-procedure|Pain intensity, pain intensity as measured by VASPI Scale, 3 months post-procedure|Pain reduction, pain reduction as measured by VASPR Scale, 1 month post-procedure|Pain reduction, pain reduction as measured by VASPR Scale, 3 month post-procedure|Mood, Mood as measured byt the VASMOOD scale, 1 month post-procedure|Mood, Mood as measured by the VASMOOD scale, 3 month post-procedure|Pain Severity, Pain severity as measured by the Tursky scale, 1 month post-procedure|Pain Severity, Pain severity as measured by the Tursky scale, 3 month post-procedure
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the side effects of radiofrequency ablation in patients with bone metastases.
* Determine the effect of this regimen on pain in these patients.
* Determine the effect of this regimen on mood in these patients.
* Determine the effects of narcotic usage in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the relationship between laboratory and imaging features of this treatment and the effects of the treatment in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo percutaneous CT-guided radiofrequency ablation directly to the metastatic lesion over approximately 12 minutes.

Pain and mood are assessed at baseline, daily for 14 days after treatment, and at 1 and 3 months after treatment.

Patients are followed at 1 week and then at 1 and 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 75 patients will be accrued for this study within 12.5 months.