AK112 Combined With Chemotherapy as the First-line Treatment in Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients
This is a single arm，phase 2 study evaluating the safety and efficacy of Ivonescimab(AK112) combined with chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). In this study, patients with advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma who had not received any systematic treatment in the past will be enrolled.

The research will be conducted in two stages. In the first part, 6 patients were enrolled in the group. After the last subject in the group completed at least 21 days of observation after the first medication, the researchers will conduct a preliminary safety and effectiveness assessment. If the safety and tolerability are good, it will enter the second expansion part till the study enrolled 30 patients. Patients who met the inclusion criteria were treated with AK112 (20mg/kg, intravenous infusion, d1, Q3W) in combination with albumin paclitaxel (220mg/m2, intravenous infusion, d1, Q3W) and cisplatin (75mg/m2, intravenous infusion, d1, Q3W), of which the maximum treatment time of chemotherapy was up to six cycles, and the maximum treatment time of AK112 was 24 months. Patients received regular and periodic reviews, with imaging evaluations every 6 weeks.
ESCC|Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Ivonescimab combined with albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin
Objective Response Rate,ORR, Defined as the proportion of patients who achieved complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) according to RECIST v1.1., 6 months
Overall survival,OS, Defined as the time between signing the informed consent form to death due to various causes., 24 months|Progression free Survival,PFS, Defined as the time between signing the informed consent form to the disease progression (according to RECIST v1.1 criteria) or death due to any cause., 12 months|Disease Control Rate,DCR, Defined as the proportion of patients who achieved complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD) according to RECIST v1.1., 6 months|Duration of Response,DoR, Defined as the time from response(when CR or PR is first diagnosed) to disease progression or death due to any cause., 6 months
Incidence of adverse events, Use NCI-CTCAE version 5.0 for classification and grading., 24 months
Part 1: Safety introduction phase, evaluate the safety and tolerability of AK112 combined with chemotherapy (albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin). Plan to enroll 6 advanced ESCC subjects who have not undergone any systematic anti-tumor treatment in the past. After completing at least 21 days of observation after the first medication of the last enrolled subject, the researchers will conduct preliminary safety and efficacy evaluations. If the safety and tolerability are good, and preliminary therapeutic signals are observed, it will enter the stage of expansion into the group. Researchers may also discuss adjusting the AK112 dose, albumin paclitaxel dose, or cisplatin dose based on the specific situation during the DLT observation period, and then enroll new subjects for the safety introduction phase evaluation of the treatment plan in the study group.

DLT definition: Within 21 days after the first administration, the subject experiences the following drug-related toxic reactions (according to NCI CTC AE 5.0 toxicity evaluation criteria): hematological toxicity level 4 or above or non hematological toxicity level 3 or above (excluding hair loss).

Part 2: Expand the enrollment stage, to further evaluate the efficacy and safety of AK112 combined with albumin paclitaxel and cisplatin in first-line treatment of advanced ESCC. During the expansion phase, 30 subjects will be enrolled, and a comprehensive discussion will be conducted based on the safety and efficacy data from the safety introduction phase to determine the dosage.