Assess Gamma H2AX Positivity in Circulating Prostate Cancer Cells Before and After Radium 223
This is a prospective biomarker study on prostate cancer patients receiving Radium 223 as standard of care.

Participants will take part in this research study because they have chosen Radium 223 treatment for their prostate cancer that has spread to the bone and causing pain. Investigators want to find out if a blood test performed before and after the Radium 223 treatment will help to understand how prostate cancer cells react to this therapy.

In this pilot study, researchers want to find out if Radium 223 given as part of standard treatment for prostate cancer can decrease the number of circulating prostate cancer cells. Radium 223 kills prostate cancer cells by damaging their DNA. Other than looking at the changes in the number of circulating prostate cancer cells before and after Radium 223, researchers would also like to look at the changes in a DNA damage marker, called gamma H2AX, in the circulating prostate cancer cells before and after treatment with Radium 223. Assessing the DNA damage marker gamma H2AX is investigational. It is performed in the same tube of blood that is used for assessing the changes in the number of circulating prostate cancer cells.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
OTHER: Blood Collection During Standard of Care Treatment
Changes in Gamma H2AX Positivity, Assess changes in gamma H2AX positivity in circulating prostate cancer cells before and after Radium 223 treatment. CTC numeration, the gamma-H2AX detection and interpretation will be performed by Veridex with the cell search platform., 24 weeks per participant|Changes in Circulating Prostate Cancer Cell Numbers, Assess changes in circulating prostate cancer cell numbers before and after Radium 223 treatment. CTC numeration, the gamma-H2AX detection and interpretation will be performed by Veridex with the cell search platform., 24 weeks per participant
Pain Response, Pain response based on Brief Pain Inventory. Pain will be assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Items #3 (worst pain over the last 24 hours by recall), #5 (average pain over the past 24 hours by recall) and #9 (interference with daily activities and sleep)., Up to 24 weeks|Changes in Narcotic Analgesic Use, Changes in narcotic analgesic use in participants requiring narcotics at baseline at each radium 223 treatment and week 24. Participants will self-report analgesic use over the past 24 hours., Up to 24 weeks|PSA Response, PSA response (30% decline of pretreatment PSA) at week 12., At week 12
Bone Scan Response, Bone scan response based on bone scan index at week 12 and week 24 from dose 1 radium 223 treatment compared with baseline. Response based on the prostate cancer work group 2 (PCWG2) criteria will be assessed at week 12 and week 24 from dose 1 radium 223 treatment and compared with the baseline bone scan., Up to 24 weeks|Changes in Alkaline Phosphatase, Changes in alkaline phosphatase at week 12, week 24 compared to baseline., Up to 24 weeks
In this pilot study, researchers want to find out if Radium 223 given as part of standard treatment for prostate cancer can decrease the number of circulating prostate cancer cells. Radium 223 kills prostate cancer cells by damaging their DNA. Other than looking at the changes in the number of circulating prostate cancer cells before and after Radium 223, researchers would also like to look at the changes in a DNA damage marker, called gamma H2AX, in the circulating prostate cancer cells before and after treatment with Radium 223. Assessing the DNA damage marker gamma H2AX is investigational. It is performed in the same tube of blood that is used for assessing the changes in the number of circulating prostate cancer cells.