A Study of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 + Veledimex in Pediatric Subjects With Brain Tumors Including DIPG
This research study involves an investigational product: Ad-RTS-hIL-12 given with veledimex for production of human IL-12. IL-12 is a protein that can improve the body's natural response to disease by enhancing the ability of the immune system to kill tumor cells and may interfere with blood flow to the tumor.

The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a single tumor injection of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 given with oral veledimex in the pediatric population.
Pediatric Brain Tumor|Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: Ad-RTS-hIL-12|DRUG: Oral Veledimex - Arm 1 (Pediatric Brain Tumor)|DRUG: Oral Veledimex - Arm 2 (DIPG)
The safety and tolerability of intratumoral Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex as measured by dose limiting toxicities and compliance., From Day 0 through Day 56
To measure the veledimex in blood and brain tumor by using the LC-MS method, From Day 0 through 30 days after the last dose of veledimex|Evaluate preliminary efficacy of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex by assessing survival and tumor response rates, 2 Years|Measure immune response of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex by a quantitative multiplex immunoassay for determination of IL-12 and IFNg levels, 28 Days|Subjects with Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex related adverse events will be assessed for safety by CTCAE v5.0, 2 Years
Eligible patients will be stratified to one of two arms, according to clinical indication for tumor resection. Pediatric patients who are scheduled for craniotomy and tumor resection will receive one dose of veledimex before the resection procedure. Ad-RTS-hIL-12 will be administered by free-hand injection. Patients will continue on oral veledimex for 14 days. This arm has been completed and is currently closed to enrollment.

Pediatric patients with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) will receive Ad-RTS-hIL-12 by stereotactic injection and then will continue on oral veledimex for 14 days.

The study is divided into three periods: the screening period, the treatment period and the follow-up period.