Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Parents of Children With Cancer
The current study aims to develop a theoretically driven ACT intervention and examine its effects among parents of children with cancer. The objectives are:

1. To examine the effects of ACT intervention on parental QOL and psychological distress (symptoms of anxiety, depression and stress) in parents of children with cancer.
2. To examine the effects of ACT intervention on parental negative experience, experiential avoidance and psychological flexibility in parents of children with cancer.
3. To examine the effects of ACT intervention on psychological adjustment of children with cancer.
Childhood Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: ACT intervention|OTHER: Usual care
Change from baseline in parental quality of life at one week after the intervention, PedsQL Parent HRQL Scale is adopted to assess parental quality of life. PedsQL Parent HRQL Scale consists of 20 items with 4 subscales of physical functioning, emotional functioning, social functioning, and cognitive functioning. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 4 (almost always). Higher scores indicate higher quality of life.

Change = (One week after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and one week after the intervention|Change from baseline in parental quality of life at three months after the intervention, PedsQL Parent HRQL Scale is adopted to assess parental quality of life. PedsQL Parent HRQL Scale consists of 20 items with 4 subscales of physical functioning, emotional functioning, social functioning, and cognitive functioning. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 4 (almost always). Higher scores indicate higher quality of life.

Change = (Three months after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and three months after the intervention|Change from baseline in parental distress at one week after the intervention, Depression Anxiety Stress Scales-21 is adopted to assess the level of depression, anxiety and stress in parents with 21 items and 3 subscales. Each item is rated on a 4-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 3 (always). Higher scores indicate more severe symptoms of depression, anxiety, or stress.

Change = (One week after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and one week after the intervention|Change from baseline in parental distress at three months after the intervention, Depression Anxiety Stress Scales-21 is adopted to assess the level of depression, anxiety and stress in parents with 21 items and 3 subscales. Each item is rated on a 4-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 3 (always). Higher scores indicate more severe symptoms of depression, anxiety, or stress.

Change = (Three months after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and three months after the intervention
Change from baseline in parental psychological experience of child Illness at one week after the intervention, Parent Experience of Child Illness is adopted to assess parental psychological experience of their children with cancer. The scale consists of 25 items with 4 subscales of 'guilt and worry', 'unresolved sorrow and anger', 'long-term uncertainty' and 'emotional resources'. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 4 (always). Higher scores indicate more difficulties in adjustment to their children with cancer.

Change = (One week after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and one week after the intervention|Change from baseline in parental psychological experience of child Illness at three months after the intervention, Parent Experience of Child Illness is adopted to assess parental psychological experience of their children with cancer. The scale consists of 25 items with 4 subscales of 'guilt and worry', 'unresolved sorrow and anger', 'long-term uncertainty' and 'emotional resources'. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 4 (always). Higher scores indicate more difficulties in adjustment to their children with cancer.

Change = (Three months after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and three months after the intervention|Change from baseline in parental experiential avoidance at one week after the intervention, Acceptance and Action Questionnaire-II is adopted to assess experiential avoidance of parents. AAQ-II consists of 7 items. Each item is rated on a 7-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (never) to 7 (always). A higher score indicates great experiential avoidance.

Change = (One week after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and one week after the intervention|Change from baseline in parental experiential avoidance at three months after the intervention, Acceptance and Action Questionnaire-II is adopted to assess experiential avoidance of parents. AAQ-II consists of 7 items. Each item is rated on a 7-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (never) to 7 (always). A higher score indicates great experiential avoidance.

Change = (Three months after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and three months after the intervention|Change from baseline in parental psychological flexibility at one week after the intervention, Comprehensive assessment of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy processes is adopted to assess psychological flexibility of parents. CompACT consists of 23 items to measure three dyadic processes of ACT on 'acceptance and defusion', 'present moment awareness' and 'self as values and committed action'. Each item is rated on a 7-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 6 (always). Higher scores indicate a lower level of PF.

Change = (One week after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and one week after the intervention|Change from baseline in parental psychological flexibility at three months after the intervention, Comprehensive assessment of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy processes is adopted to assess psychological flexibility of parents. CompACT consists of 23 items to measure three dyadic processes of ACT on 'acceptance and defusion', 'present moment awareness' and 'self as values and committed action'. Each item is rated on a 7-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (never) to 6 (always). Higher scores indicate a lower level of PF.

Change = (Three months after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and three months after the intervention|Change from baseline in psychological adjustment of children with cancer one week after the intervention, Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire is adopted to assess the psychological adjustment of children ages 2 to 17 years old. SDQ consists of 25 items to measure the emotional symptoms and behavioural problems of children. Each item is rated on a 3-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not true) to 2 (certainly true). A higher score indicates poor psychological adjustment.

Change = (One week after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and one week after the intervention|Change from baseline in psychological adjustment of children with cancer at three months after the intervention, Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire is adopted to assess the psychological adjustment of children ages 2 to 17 years old. SDQ consists of 25 items to measure the emotional symptoms and behavioural problems of children. Each item is rated on a 3-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not true) to 2 (certainly true). A higher score indicates poor psychological adjustment.

Change = (Three months after the intervention score - baseline score), Baseline and three months after the intervention
A pilot study will be used to evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of ACT intervention protocol in Chinese parents of children with cancer. A two-arm parallel randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be used to evaluate the effects of ACT intervention in parents of children with cancer.

Eligible participants will be randomly assigned into a 1:1 allocation ratio to the ACT group or control group using block randomization with random mixture blocks of 4, 6 and 8. This can avoid the greater frequency of assignments to either group and lead to more balanced treatment groups in size and key outcome-related characteristics over time while reducing the predictability of assignment from the preceding assignment. A sequence list of two group labels (1 = ACT group, 2 = Control group) will be generated using a computerized generation randomization tool by an independent statistician who is blinded to the meaning of group labels will not involve the other part of the study. The group allocation assignment labels will be contained in opaque sealed envelopes and concealed to all researchers and participants involved in this study until the research investigator has completed the assessments of the participant and obtained written consent during the recruitment.

Considering the nature of the study, blinding of participants and ACT interventionists will be impossible. The research assistants involved in data collection and data entry as well as health routine care providers in the units of study hospital will be blinded to the group allocation.

To prevent possible contamination, the ACT intervention for parents in the ACT group will be conducted in a meeting room in the staff area which is geographically separate from the patient area. Besides, the participants are required not to show ACT intervention materials to, nor discuss the intervention contents with other parents in the unit.