A Study Assessing KB707 for the Treatment of Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
KB707-01 is a Phase 1/2, open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and expansion study. The study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of KB707 in adults with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors who have progressed on standard of care therapy, cannot tolerate standard of care therapy, refused standard of care therapy, or for whom there is no standard of care therapy as well as the safety, tolerability, preliminary efficacy, and immunologic effect of KB707 administered in combination with Opdualag to subjects with unresectable or metastatic melanoma.

Subjects in dose escalation (Cohorts 1 through 3) and dose expansion (Cohort 4) will receive intratumoral injections of KB707 approximately every three weeks. Cohorts 1 through 4 are closed to new enrollment. Dose expansion Cohort 5 and Cohort 6 will evaluate subjects with advanced melanoma. Subjects in Cohort 5 will receive intratumoral injections of KB707 biweekly (q2w), delivered in combination with Opdualag (dosed every q4w per prescribing information). Subjects in Cohort 6 will receive intratumoral injections of KB707 biweekly (q2w), delivered in combination with Keytruda (dosed every q6w per prescribing information). All subjects will be treated until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, symptomatic deterioration, achievement of maximal response, subject choice, Investigator decision to discontinue treatment, or the Sponsor determines to terminate the study.
Cancer|Melanoma Stage III|Melanoma Stage IV|Cutaneous Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: KB707|DRUG: Opdualag|DRUG: KEYTRUDA ®( Pembrolizumab)
Percentage of adverse events (AEs), Percentage of subjects with adverse events (AEs), up to 36 months|Percentage of serious adverse events (SAEs), Percentage of subjects with serious adverse events (SAEs), up to 36 months
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Assess whether the tested doses include the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of KB707 based on the safety and response data collected during the dose escalation portion of the study, up to 36 months|Percentage of overall response rate (ORR), Percentage of ORR, up to 36 months
KB707 is a genetically modified herpes simplex type 1 virus that is designed to stimulate an anti-tumor immune response through the production of cytokines. This is a first-in-human (FIH) clinical study to evaluate the safety and tolerability and preliminary efficacy of KB707 in adult subjects with advanced and/or refractory solid tumors, including advanced melanoma. The study will include a dose escalation portion for single agent KB707 and an expansion portion to further evaluate single agent KB707 at a dose determined by preliminary data in the dose escalation phase as well as combination therapy of KB707 with immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy.