Neoadjuvant Ontruzant (SB3) in Patients With HER2-positive Early Breast Cancer: An Open-Label (NeoON)
The treatment of patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer has continuously improved over the last decades. Up to now both, trastuzumab and pertuzumab are approved in combination with chemotherapy (CTX) not only for the adjuvant but also for the neoadjuvant treatment of early breast cancer patients. A high pCR rate in the neoadjuvant setting was shown in several trials and observational studies with CTX+ trastuzumab and with CTX+ pertuzumab. The efficacy is dependent on a variety of mechanisms including the blocking of the important PI3K/Akt and MAPK pathways, and ADCC (antibody dependent cellular toxicity).

Recently the biosimilar Ontruzant® (SB3) has been introduced into the treatment of HER2 positive breast cancer as a biosimilar. Efficacy and toxicity have been shown to be equivalent to the first approved antibody, however, data from the real-world setting have not been published like it has for the originally approved antibody. Therefore, the aim of this study is to establish safety and efficacy for Ontruzant® in the real world setting. Patients can be included if they are treated with Ontruzant® in the neoadjuvant setting. Additionally, the study will be accompanied by a comprehensive immune monitoring program and biomarker program to explore immune oncology potential for the neoadjuvant treatment.
Breast Cancer|Breast Neoplasms|Breast Cancer Female|HER2-positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Ontruzant|DRUG: Chemotherapy|DRUG: Pertuzumab
Pathological complete response (pCR) rate, Pathological complete response (pCR) rate, defined as the complete absence of tumor cells (ypT0; ypN0) after neoadjuvant study treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer patients treated with Ontruzant® (SB3) in combination with pertuzumab (optional) and a standard chemotherapy., Pathological complete response will be assessed at final surgery.
Pathological complete response (pCR) rate in patients without pertuzumab, Pathological complete response (pCR) rate, defined as the complete absence of tumor cells (ypT0; ypN0) after neoadjuvant study treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer patients treated with Ontruzant® (SB3) and a standard chemotherapy who were not treated with pertuzumab., Pathological complete response will be assessed at final surgery.|Number of participants wuth treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, The safety endpoints for the study will include rate of AE/SAEs and fatal SAEs, causality and outcome of AE/SAEs, rate of treatment discontinuations and reasons, Changes in vital signs, laboratory values etc. Grading of AE/SAEs will be based on NCI CTCAE v5.0., Adverse ebents will be assessed from first administration of trial treatment until 30 days after last administration of trial treatment.|EORTC-QLQ-C30, To evaluate changes in health related quality of life (QoL) assessments from baseline in all subjects using Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30)., Every nine weeks from first administration of trial medication through study completion, up to 30 days after administration of last medication.|EORTC-QLQ-BR23, To evaluate changes in health related quality of life (QoL) assessments from baseline in all subjects using Quality of Life Questionnaire Breast Cancer-Specific Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ-BR23)., Every nine weeks from first administration of trial medication through study completion, up to 30 days after administration of last medication.
To assess the antibody-dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC), ADCC will be quantified and immune phenotyping will be performed from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery|FcγR genotypes, Germline DNA will be genotyped in order to specify FcγR polymorphisms and impact of FcγR genotypes on ADCC and pCR will be assessed., Measured from biomaterial collected at baseline, 12 weeks after treatment initiation and at surgery
The treatment of patients with HER2 positive early breast cancer has continuously improved over the last decades. Up to now both, trastuzumab and pertuzumab are approved in combination with chemotherapy (CTX) not only for the adjuvant but also for the neoadjuvant treatment of early breast cancer patients. A high pCR rate in the neoadjuvant setting was shown in several trials and observational studies with CTX+ trastuzumab and with CTX+ pertuzumab. The efficacy is dependent on a variety of mechanisms including the blocking of the important PI3K/Akt and MAPK pathways, and ADCC (antibody dependent cellular toxicity).

Recently the biosimilar Ontruzant® (SB3) has been introduced into the treatment of HER2 positive breast cancer as a biosimilar. Efficacy and toxicity have been shown to be equivalent to the first approved antibody, however, data from the real-world setting have not been published like it has for the originally approved antibody. Therefore, the aim of this study is to establish safety and efficacy for Ontruzant® in the real world setting. Patients can be included if they are treated with Ontruzant® in the neoadjuvant setting. Additionally, the study will be accompanied by a comprehensive immune monitoring program and biomarker program to explore immune oncology potential for the neoadjuvant treatment.