Lamotrigine in Treating Peripheral Neuropathy Caused by Chemotherapy in Patients With Cancer
RATIONALE: Lamotrigine may be effective in reducing pain, numbness, tingling, and other symptoms of peripheral neuropathy. It is not yet known whether lamotrigine is effective in treating peripheral neuropathy caused by chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying how well lamotrigine works in reducing pain, numbness, tingling, and other symptoms of peripheral neuropathy caused by chemotherapy in patients with cancer.
Neurotoxicity|Pain|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: lamotrigine|OTHER: Placebo
Change in Average Daily Pain Score as Measured Using a Pain Intensity Rating (NRS), The change in mean score for average daily pain from baseline to week 10 using the Pain Intensity Rating (NRS) are reported below. The NRS scale ranges from 0 to 10 with higher scores corresponding to having more pain., From baseline to week 10|Change in Average Pain Score as Measured Using the European Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Neuropathy Scale (ENS), The change in mean score for average daily pain from baseline to week 10 using the European Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) neuropathy scale (ENS) are reported below. The ENS scale goes from 0 to 3 with 0=none, 1=mild paresthesias, 2=mild or moderate sensory loss and/or moderate paresthesias, and 3=severe sensory loss or paresthesias that interfere with function., From baseline to week 10
The Change in Overall Quality of Life as Measured by the Uniscale QOL From Baseline to Week 10, The change in overall quality of life as measured by the Uniscale QOL (Week 10 minus Baseline) using the Wilcoxon test is reported for each arm below. The Uniscale is a score that ranges from 0 to 100, with 0 being QOL as bad as it can be and 100 being as good as it can be., From baseline to week 10|Change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Worst Pain Score [Week 10 Minus Baseline], The average change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Worst Pain scores between baseline and week 10 using Wilcoxon test are reported for each arm below. The BPI scales range from 0 to 10 with 0 meaning no pain and 10 meaning pain as bad as you can imagine., From baseline to week 10|Change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Least Pain Score [Week 10 Minus Baseline], The average change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Least Pain scores between baseline and week 10 using Wilcoxon test are reported for each arm below. The BPI scales range from 0 to 10 with 0 meaning no pain and 10 meaning pain as bad as you can imagine.

Time Frame:

Up to 1 week post-treatment, From baseline to week 10|Change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Average Pain Score [Week 10 Minus Baseline], The average change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Average Pain scores between baseline and week 10 using Wilcoxon test are reported for each arm below. The BPI scales range from 0 to 10 with 0 meaning no pain and 10 meaning pain as bad as you can imagine., From baseline to week 10|Change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Pain Now Score [Week 10 Minus Baseline], The average change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Pain Now scores between baseline and week 10 using Wilcoxon test are reported for each arm below. The BPI scales range from 0 to 10 with 0 meaning no pain and 10 meaning pain as bad as you can imagine., From baseline to week 10|Change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Pain Relief Score [Week 10 Minus Baseline], The average change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Pain Relief scores between baseline and week 10 using Wilcoxon test are reported for each arm below. The BPI scales range from 0 to 10 with 0 meaning no pain and 10 meaning pain as bad as you can imagine., From baseline to week 10|Change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Pain Interference Score [Week 10 Minus Baseline], The average change in Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) Pain Interference scores between baseline and week 10 using Wilcoxon test are reported for each arm below. The BPI scales range from 0 to 10 with 0 meaning no pain and 10 meaning pain as bad as you can imagine., From baseline to week 10|Change in POMS Total Score [Week 10 Minus Baseline], The average change in POMS Total scores between baseline and week 10 using Wilcoxon test are reported for each arm below. The POMS scales are calculated from patient responses on 30 questions asking how they have been feeling during the past week. The scores are all transformed so that 0 is the worst possible value and 100 is the best possible value., From baseline to week 10
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the efficacy of lamotrigine vs placebo in reducing pain and symptoms of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with cancer.
* Compare symptom distress, mood states, functional abilities, and overall quality of life of patients treated with these agents.
* Determine the toxic effects of lamotrigine in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study. Patients are stratified according to neurotoxic chemotherapy received (taxanes vs platinum-based compounds vs vinca alkaloids vs combination vs other), status of neurotoxic chemotherapy (actively receiving therapy vs discontinued or completed), and duration of pain or neuropathy symptoms (1-3 months vs 3-6 months vs more than 6 months). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.