Interval Inspiratory Training and Aerobic Exercise for Muscle Recovery in Myasthenia Gravis Post-Hospitalization
The goal of this clinical trial is to determine whether inspiratory muscle training aids in the recovery of respiratory muscle strength and helps prevent further muscle weakness in patients with myasthenia gravis.

The primary research questions are:

Does inspiratory muscle training enhance respiratory muscle strength recovery? Does the intervention lead to improved lung volumes? Participants underwent daily inspiratory muscle training and aerobic exercise for six consecutive weeks.
Myasthenia Gravis
PROCEDURE: Inspiratory muscle training|PROCEDURE: Control Group
Maximum inspiratory pressure, Maximum inspiratory pressure was measured by instructing each subject to exert their maximum inspiratory force against a pressure gauge., Six weeks
Dyspnea Severity Assessment, Dyspnea severity was assessed by a rating of perceived exertion, using the Borg Scale which ranged from 0 (no respiratory difficulty) to 10 (extreme respiratory difficulty), with higher scores indicating more severe breathing difficulty., Six weeks|Forced expiratory volume at one second, The forced expiratory volume at one second was obtained, using spirometry, by having the patient take a deep breath and then exhale forcefully. The test results were based on three reproducible measurements., Six weeks|Peak expiratory flow, The peak expiratory flow was measured using a respiratory mechanics monitor during three forceful expirations., Six weeks|Maximum expiratory pressure, Maximum expiratory pressure was measured by instructing each subject to exert their maximum expiratory force against a pressure gauge., Six weeks|Forced Vital Capacity, Forced vital capacity was measured using spirometry. Patients were instructed to take a deep breath and then exhale forcefully. The results were based on the average of three reproducible measurements., Six weeks|Six-minute walk test, Patients were instructed to walk as fast as possible, while pulse oxygen saturation levels, heart rate, and Borg scale scores were monitored and recorded before, during, and after the test., Six weeks
Patients with myasthenia gravis who experience acute exacerbations requiring hospitalization often suffer a significant decline in muscle strength, followed by partial recovery after the acute phase. This randomized controlled trial aims to evaluate the potential of early inspiratory muscle training and aerobic exercise in promoting muscle strength recovery and preventing further weakness. The study will assess differences in lung function, respiratory muscle strength, and dyspnea levels following the intervention after patients are discharged from the hospital post-acute exacerbation.