Fish Oil Supplementation in Gastrointestinal Cancer
Double-blind, randomized clinical trial to assess the effects of 1,55 g/day of n-3 fatty acids from fish oil concomitant chemotherapy in gastrointestinal cancer.
Gastrointestinal Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Stomach Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Encapsuled fish oil|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Encapsulated Olive oil
Change in Quality of life, Application by interview of the EORTC QOL questionnaires: QLQ-C30 v. 3.0; CRC-29 and STO22. The change was observed by increase ou decrease in overall score of the scales., baseline and 9 weeks (final moment)|Cytokines of inflammatory response, Quantification of plasmatic concentration of cytokines (TNF, IL-17A, IL-10), Baseline, 5 and 9 weeks|Body weight, Assessment of weight (kg), 5 and 9 weeks|Body Mass Index (BMI), Assessment of BMI (Kg/m²), baseline, 5 and 9 weeks|Weight Change, Weight change in comparison with the weight at baseline (Kg), baseline, 5 and 9 weeks|Fat mass, Fat mass assessment by electric bioimpedance (kg and %), baseline and 9 weeks|Lean body mass, Lean body mass assessment by electric bioimpedance (kg and %), baseline and 9 weeks|arm circumference, measurement of arm circumference using a inelastic metric tape (cm), baseline, 5 and 9 weeks|tricipital skinfold, measurement of triciptal skinfold using a caliper (mm), baseline, 5 and 9 weeks|Serum C-reactive protein, Serum quantification of C-reactive protein (mg/dL), baseline, 5 and 9 weeks|Activity of Catalase, Quantification of erythrocyte catalase activity, Baseline and 9 weeks|Activity of Glutathione Peroxidase, Quantification of erythrocyte glutathione peroxidase activity, Baseline and 9 weeks|Activity of Superoxide Dismutase, Quantification of erythrocyte superoxide dismutase activity, Baseline and 9 weeks|Lipid Peroxidation, Evaluation of lipid hydroperoxides in plasma and leukocytes, Baseline and 9 weeks|Evaluation of adverse events consequences, Evaluation of changes in treatment protocol due to adverse events (hospitalizations, treatment interruption, delay of treatment administration, dose reductions), Baseline and 9 weeks|Graduation of adverse events, Graduation of hematological and gastrointestinal adverse events related to chemotherapy treatment, Baseline, 5 weeks and 9 weeks|Tumor Markers, Quantification of serum tumor marker CEA and CA19, Baseline and 9 weeks|Survival, Evaluation of survival after 6 months and after one year of recruitment, Baseline, 6 months and one year|Serum albumin, Serum quantification of albumin (g/dL), baseline, 5 weeks and 9 weeks
This study will be divided into three stages defined as: baseline (T0), middle moment (T1) and final moment (T2). At baseline, will be performer the patients identification, clinical data collection, assessment of anthropometric data and body composition, blood sample collection and questionnaires application for individuals allocated into two groups (Fish Oil Group and Placebo Group). The Fish Oil Group (GOP) will receive fish oil capsules and the placebo group (GP) will receive capsules containing olive oil, both also will receive consumption guidelines.

The list of randomization was generated by a computer program and was divided by cancer localization and gender. The researchers involved with the recruitment had access only to randomization list containing codes. The codes were distributed sequentially.

The baseline is the day of first chemotherapy. In the middle moment, five weeks after the start of study, new blood collection, questionnaires and measurement of anthropometric data will be performed. At the final moment, nine weeks after baseline, last blood collection, questionnaires and measurement of anthropometric data and body composition of fish oil and placebo groups will be performed, and will feature the end of the capsules consumption.

After 6 months and 1 year after the initiation of chemotherapy and supplementation with fish oil or placebo, survival data will be collected.

Throughout the monitoring period, the researcher and collaborators will maintain contact with the individuals included. The contact will be made in CEPON, where they receive chemotherapy, and by telephone.