Pharmacokinetics of Systemic Anti-Cancer Therapies in the Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) of Patients With Advanced Cancer
This clinical trial is being done to learn more about how different types of cancer treatments affect cancer cells when they spread to the brain. Many cancer treatments are not able to make their way into the brain or into spinal fluid of the central nervous system. This is because they cannot cross what is called the "blood-brain barrier" or "BBB". The BBB is like a protective shield that only allows certain materials pass through to reach the brain but not others. This study is being initiated to help researchers learn more about what types of cancer treatments make it through the BBB to attack cancer cells within the brain, and what treatments do not make it through the BBB. Learning more about this may help future researchers develop more effective cancer drugs that better fight cancer cells that have spread to the brain.
Metastatic Cancer Patients on an Anti-cancer Therapy|Advanced Cancer|Brain Metastasis
The concentration of drug metabolites of systemic anti-cancer therapies in the cerebrospinal fluid, CSF pharmacokinetics of systemic anti-cancer therapies, as measured by the concentration of their metabolites in the cerebrospinal fluid, will be obtained via lumbar puncture. The lumbar puncture will take place within 2 half-lives of the last dose of systemic therapy. Because a wide variety of anti-cancer therapies will be studied in this trial, there is significant variability in the half-lives of these therapies. Some will take place 2-24 hours after the last dose of systemic therapy. Some will take place 1-6 days after the last dose of systemic therapy. Some will take place 1-3 weeks after the last dose of systemic therapy. The time of the lumbar puncture procedure will depend greatly on the identity of the systemic therapy with which the subject is being treated. In patients undergoing surgical resection of a brain metastasis, an additional CSF sample is optional., up to 3 weeks|Ratio of serum to CSF concentration of systemic anti-cancer therapies as measured by concentration of drug metabolites in serum and in CSF, CSF and serum pharmacokinetics of systemic anti-cancer therapies, as measured by the concentration of their metabolites, will be obtained via lumbar puncture and blood draw, respectively. The lumbar puncture and blood draw will take place together within 2 half-lives of the last dose of systemic therapy. Because a wide variety of anti-cancer therapies will be studied in this trial, there is significant variability in the half-lives of these therapies. Some will take place 2-24 hours after the last dose of systemic therapy. Some will take place 1-6 days after the last dose. Some will take place 1-3 weeks after the last dose. The time of the lumbar puncture procedure will depend greatly on the identity of the systemic therapy with which the subject is being treated. In patients undergoing surgical resection of a brain metastasis, an additional matched CSF and serum sample is optional., up to 3 weeks
Very little is known about the penetration of systemic therapies through the normal blood brain barrier and the ways in which a brain metastasis or radiation would impact the permeability of the blood brain barrier. This study would be one of the first to examine the concentrations of systemic cancer therapies in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with matched serum samples. Additionally, the concentration of these therapies in brain metastasis surgical specimens would be of particular interest to correlate with serum and CSF levels, length of time on therapy, and latency to developing brain metastases in future studies.

As participants in this study, patients scheduled for a lumbar puncture per their standard of care treatment will be subject to a withdrawal of 15cc's of cerebrospinal fluid for pharmacokinetic analysis. They will also have a blood draw of 5mL within 2 hours of the lumbar puncture for serum pharmacokinetics. If the patient is eligible for and elects to proceed with surgical resection of a brain metastasis, optional CSF and serum samples would be drawn at the time of resection.