Lung-MAP: A Master Screening Protocol for Previously-Treated Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This screening and multi-sub-study randomized phase II/III trial will establish a method for genomic screening of similar large cancer populations followed by assigning and accruing simultaneously to a multi-sub-study hybrid Master Protocol (Lung-MAP). The type of cancer trait (biomarker) will determine to which sub-study, within this protocol, a participant will be assigned to compare new targeted cancer therapy, designed to block the growth and spread of cancer, or combinations to standard of care therapy with the ultimate goal of being able to approve new targeted therapies in this setting. In addition, the protocol includes non-match sub-studies which will include all screened patients not eligible for any of the biomarker-driven sub-studies.
Previously Treated Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Screening Platform
Screening Success (Tissue Submission), The tissue submission will be measured by the proportion of patients who register to this screening study for whom a tissue sample is submitted., Up to 3 years|Screening Success (Adequate Tissue), Adequate tissue will be measured by the proportion of patients who submitted a specimen for whom genomic results were successfully obtained, if multiple platforms are being used (e.g. both FMI and IHC), these rates will be summarized by the individual assays and combined. These rates are summarized for the entire screened population and by screening type (screened at progression versus pre-screened prior to progression). The rates are evaluated for both the initial submission success rates and the overall success rate accounting for new tissue submissions following an unsuccessful result., Up to 3 years|Screening Success (Prescreening-to-sub-study Assignment), Pre-screening-to-sub-study assignment will be measured among pre-screened patients and the proportion of patients assigned to a sub-study (which is triggered by the submission of the notice of progression form, see Section 14.0). Note: Patients screened at progression are notified of their sub-study assignment within 1 day of the biomarker results being reported to SWOG., Up to 3 years|Screening Success (Notice of Intention Not to Register Submission), Screening success will be measured by the reasons for non-participation collection on the LungMAP Notice of Intention not to Register Form. The proportions of patients with this form submitted are summarized overall and by screening type. The reasons for submission are summarized overall and by screening type., Up to 3 years|Screening Success (Match to Biomarker-Driven Sub-Study), Match to Biomarker-Driven Sub-Study will be measured by successful biomarker screening, the proportion assigned to a biomarker-driven substudy., Up to 3 years|Screening Success (Assignment Success), Assignment Success will be measured by the proportion of patients assigned to a sub-study who are registered to a sub-study, these rates are summarized overall and among biomarker-driven and non-match sub-study assignments, separately. In addition, these rates are summarized by screening type., Up to 3 years
Primary Objective of the Master Protocol (LUNGMAP)

The primary objective of this screening study is to test patient specimens to determine eligibility for participation in the biomarker-driven and non-matched sub-studies included within the Lung-MAP umbrella protocol.

Secondary Objectives

1. Screening Success Rate Objective

   To evaluate the screen success rate defined as the percentage of screened patients that register for a therapeutic sub-study. Screen success rates will be evaluated for the total screened population and by the subset of patients screened following progression on previous therapy or pre-screened on current therapy.
2. Translational Medicine Objectives

   1. To evaluate circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and compare to the FMI Foundation tissue molecular profiling results in patients who submit a new biopsy for screening.
   2. To establish a tissue/blood repository.

Ancillary Study S1400GEN Objectives

The Lung-MAP Screening Study includes an ancillary study evaluating patient and physician attitudes regarding the return of somatic mutation findings suggestive of a germline mutation. Participation in this study is optional.

1. Primary Objective

   To evaluate patient attitudes and preferences about return of somatic mutation findings suggestive of a germline mutation in the Lung-MAP Screening Study.
2. Secondary Objectives

   1. To evaluate Lung-MAP study physician attitudes and preferences about return of somatic mutation findings suggestive of a germline mutation in the Lung-MAP Screening Study.
   2. To evaluate Lung-MAP patients' and study physicians' knowledge of cancer genomics.
   3. To evaluate Lung-MAP patients' and study physicians' knowledge of the design of the Lung-MAP Screening Study.
   4. To explore whether physician and patient knowledge of cancer genomics and attitudes and preferences about return of genomic profiling findings are correlated.