Relationship Between Albumin/Creatine Ratio, B12, Folate, and Frailty Index
In the literature, the relationship between frailty and various blood tests such as beta-2 microglobulin, CRP, procalcitonin, vitamin D, IL-1, and IL-6 has been investigated (2). In our study, the investigators aim to investigate the relationship between frailty status assessed using frailty scale forms (Frailty Scale Version 9, Quality of Life Scale Short Form-36) and preoperative levels of Albumin/Creatinine, B12, Folate, Ferritin, hemogram, Sedimentation Rate, and CRP in patients undergoing gastrointestinal malignancy surgery. By identifying the relationship among these parameters, the investigators believe that modifiable factors contributing to frailty in patients at risk can be addressed through appropriate interventions.
Frailty
OTHER: Frailty scale forms (Frailty Scale Version 9, Quality of Life Scale Short Form-36)
Frailty Scale Version 9, Patients' frailty status will be assessed using the Frailty Scale Version 9.There are scores between 1 and 9 on this scale. Patients with a score of 4 or above are defined as fraile., one day before surgery|Quality of Life Scale Short Form-36, SF-36 is a scale to be used to evaluate quality of life.In this scoring, scoring is between 0-100. Increasing scores are considered as positive health status., one day before surgery
Albumin/Creatine Ratio, The ratio of albumin and creatinine to each other will be measured., one day before surgery|B12 levels, B12 concentration will be measured, one day before surgery|Folate levels, Folate concentration will be measured, one day before surgery
Frailty is a condition associated with a decline in physiological performance. Patients are categorized as healthy, pre-frail, or frail based on physiological and functional characteristics. Frailty is known to be influenced by various lifestyle factors such as socioeconomic status, psychological factors, diet, exercise, and genetic predisposition. With aging, there is an increase in cognitive and physical dysfunction, which correlates with an increase in frailty. Along with frailty, geriatric symptoms, mortality, and other negative health outcomes also increase in the elderly population. Therefore, early detection of frailty is crucial to implementing lifestyle changes aimed at improving cognitive and physical status. Various assessment scales are used to evaluate frailty, such as the Frailty Scale Version 9, Quality of Life Scale Short Form-36, and Modified 5-item frailty index (mFI-5) In the literature, the relationship between frailty and various blood tests such as beta-2 microglobulin, CRP, procalcitonin, vitamin D, IL-1, and IL-6 has been investigated (2). In our study, the investigators aim to investigate the relationship between frailty status assessed using frailty scale forms (Frailty Scale Version 9, Quality of Life Scale Short Form-36) and preoperative levels of Albumin/Creatinine, B12, Folate, Ferritin,hemogram, Sedimentation Rate, and CRP in patients undergoing gastrointestinal malignancy surgery. By identifying the relationship among these parameters, the investigators believe that modifiable factors contributing to frailty in patients at risk can be addressed through appropriate interventions.