Lapatinib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Endometrial Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well lapatinib works in treating patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer. Lapatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth
Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma
DRUG: lapatinib ditosylate
Percentage of Patients With Progression-free Survival > 6 Months, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., For those patients whose disease can be evaluated by physical examination, progression was assessed prior to each 28-day cycle. CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle, for up to 5 years.|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 3.0, The frequency and severity of all toxicities are tabulated., Every cycle during treatment and 30 days after the last cycle of therapy.
Percentage of Patients With Tumor Response, Complete and Partial Tumor Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.0. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., For those patients whose disease can be evaluated by physical examination, response was assessed prior to each 28-day cycle. CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle, for up to 5 years.|Duration of Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Every other cycle during treatment, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually for the next 5 years.|Overall Survival, The observed length of life from entry into the study to death or the date of last contact., From study entry to death or last contact, up to 5 years.|Prognostic Factors (Performance Status), Performance status 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction.

Performance status 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of light or sedentary nature, e.g., light housework, office work., Baseline|Prognostic Factor (Histologic Grade), G1 - Highly differentiated adenomatous carcinoma. G2 - Differentiated adenomatous carcinoma with partly solid areas. G3 - Predominantly solid or entirely undifferentiated carcinoma. Not graded - tumor grade not reported., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the 6-month progression-free survival of patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial carcinoma treated with lapatinib.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this drug in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate in patients treated with this drug. II. Determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival in patients treated with this drug.

III. Determine the effects of prognostic factors, such as initial performance status and tumor grade, in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral lapatinib once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 22-82 patients will be accrued for this study within 30-67 months.