Naptumomab Estafenatox in Combination With Pembrolizumab Preceded by Obinutuzumab in Patients With Urothelial Cancers
The main purpose of this study is to test the safety and tolerability of naptumomab estafenatox (NAP), the planned experimental (investigational) drug, in combination with pembrolizumab following a single pretreatment with Obinutuzumab (Obi), and determine its side effects and effects on urothelial cancer. It is hypothesized that adding NAP will make pembrolizumab more effective. Participants will receive 2 infusions of Obi prior to the treatment of NAP in combination with pembrolizumab. This treatment is given in 21-day cycles for 6 cycles with NAP administered daily for 4 consecutive days, Days 1-4, + pembrolizumab given on day 2 of each cycle. After these six cycles of therapy, participants will continue to receive pembrolizumab every 3 weeks, without NAP, for a total number of up to 34 pembrolizumab administrations since cycle 1. After the treatment of Obi is completed, participants will start NAP in combination with pembrolizumab and continue that treatment in a 28 day cycle period. NAP will be given for a total of 6 cycles and pembrolizumab will be given every 21 days for a total of up to 2 years. After stopping treatment, participants have follow-up visits or phone calls about every 12 weeks until the study is closed.
Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Naptumomab Estafenatox|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Obinutuzumab
Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of the combination of NAP/pembrolizumab preceded by obinutuzumab to find the, The RP2D will be determined based on the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) observed in the trial as well as other factors such as AE profiles observed, correlative analyses, etc. It will not be a dose level that is greater than the MTD. The MTD will be the highest dose that results in less than 25% dose limiting toxicities as described in the protocol based on the CTCAE v5.0., Day 21
Objective response rate (ORR) based on the RECIST 1.1 criteria, The objective response rate will be determined as the number of patients with a confirmed PR or CR (via RECIST v1.1) divided by the total number of patients evaluable for objective response., Until disease progression or death, for a maximum of approximately 4 years|Median duration of response (DOR) in subjects who achieve an objective response (CR or PR), DOR is defined as the time from first evidence of response (CR or PR) to progressive disease or death, whichever occurs first. Progressive disease is defined per RECIST v1.1 criteria. The DOR will only be evaluated for patients with a confirmed response. Patients who had a confirmed response and are alive without documented disease progression will be censored at the time of their last disease evaluation. If more than 50% of the responders had experienced a progression/death, the median DOR will be estimated with a corresponding 95% CI., Until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, for a maximum of approximately 4 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from start of study treatment to progression or death from any cause. Living subjects with no PD will be censored at the date of the last evaluable response assessment., Until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, for a maximum of approximately 4 years|6-month Progression-Free Survival (6-PFS), 6- month PFS is defined as the time from start of study treatment to progression or death from any cause, as assessed at 6 months. Living subjects with no PD will be censored at the date of the last evaluable response assessment., 6 months from treatment initiation|Number of adverse events (AEs) associated with the investigational drug combination, Adverse reactions will be graded as per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) version 5., AEs will be assessed from the time of informed consent until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment.|12-Month Progression-Free Survival (12-PFS), 12-month Progression-Free Survival is defined as time from start of study treatment to progression or death from any cause, as assessed at 12 months. Living subjects with no PD will be censored at the date of the last evaluable response assessment., 12 months from treatment initiation
This is a Phase 1, open-label, prospective, dose-finding and cohort expansion study to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacodynamics and preliminary antitumor activity of the combination of NAP/pembrolizumab following pretreatment with Obi in patients with urothelial cancers who are candidates for pembrolizumab treatment. and will not be used to determine eligibility for enrollment.

The study will test two doses of NAP 5 µg/kg/day (Dose Level 1) and 10 µg/kg/day (Dose Level 2), in combination with a fixed dose of pembrolizumab (200mg every 3 weeks). It is expected that full dose of both drugs can be safely combined. The purpose of this study is to define the recommended dose for phase 2 trials of the combination of NAP/pembrolizumab by employing a BOIN design for phase 1 trials. The BOIN design will find the highest dose for which the probability of a dose-limiting toxicity is less than 0.25. No dose level will have more than 12 patients. An initial cohort of 3 patients will be enrolled on Dose Level 1. After these patients have been observed for a DLT, the decision to escalate, de-escalate or remain at the current dose will be made according to the table in the statistical section of the protocol. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be selected using isotonic regression that pools the information across doses. No intra-patient dose escalation is permitted. Patients who discontinue the study during the 21-day dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) observation period for reasons other than a DLT, or who do not receive a full cycle of NAP/pembrolizumab, will be replaced.

Each patient will participate in 3 stages of the trial: a 21-day screening stage, followed by a treatment stage that may continue until evidence of progressive neoplastic disease, intolerance to treatment of fulfillment of any of the other criteria for treatment discontinuation as listed in Section 8.1 of the protocol, and a follow-up phase to determine the effect of protocol treatment on cancer progression. All patients will be seen at the end of treatment (EOT) visit 30 (+ 7) days after the last dose of protocol therapy.