VPA Expanded UCB Transplantation for Treatment of Patients With Hematological Malignancies
In this Phase I study, the study team will evaluate the safety of Valproic Acid (VPA) expanded cord blood stem cells defined by the lack of serious infusion reactions or graft failure in patients with hematological malignancies undergoing umbilical cord blood transplantation. Moreover, the study team will also evaluate time to neutrophil and platelet engraftment as well as transplant related outcomes such as graft versus host disease (GVHD), treatment related mortality (TRM), and overall survival (OS).
Hematological Malignancy|Acute Leukemia in Remission|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Cord blood stem cells|DRUG: Valproic Acid|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: cytoxan|DRUG: Thiotepa|BIOLOGICAL: TBI
Number of Infusion Reaction, Safety as measured by the incidence of infusion related reactions., 42 days|Number of Graft Failure, Safety as measured by the incidence of graft failures., 42 days
Time to neutrophil engraftment, Transplant related outcomes: time to neutrophil engraftment, 1 year|Time to platelets engraftment, Transplant related outcomes: time to platelets engraftment, 1 year|Number of transplant-related mortality (TRM), Transplant related outcomes: transplant-related mortality (TRM), 1 year|Number of disease free survivals, Transplant related outcomes: Number of disease free survivals, 1 year|Number of overall survivals, Transplant related outcomes: Number of overall survivals, 1 year|Number of participants at risk of GVHD, Transplant Related Outcomes: risk of GVHD, 1 year|Number of infectious complications, Transplant Related Outcomes: incidence of infectious complications - which is any documented bacterial, viral, or fungal infections., 1 year|Time to myeloid engraftment, Assess the kinetics of engraftment and immune reconstitution by assessing time to myeloid engraftment, 42 days|Time to lymphoid engraftment, Assess the kinetics of engraftment and immune reconstitution by assessing time to lymphoid engraftment, 42 days|Change in T cell count, Assess the kinetics of engraftment and immune reconstitution by assessing the T cell count at 42 days as compared to baseline, Baseline and 42 days
This is a phase I trial for safety of VPA expanded cord blood stem cells in patients with hematological malignancies undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation. The primary endpoint of the study is safety as defined by the incidence of infusion reactions and graft failure, lack of neutrophil engraftment by day +42. The trial will consist of two cohorts. First cohort of 5-7 patients, will undergo double umbilical cord blood (UCB) transplantation. One UCB unit will undergo CD34 selection followed VPA based expansion. CD34 negative portion of that unit will be cryopreserved to be infused later following infusion of the expanded portion. Infusion of the second unmanipulated UCB will follow it. Preparative regimen is Fludarabine 150 mg/m2/Cytoxan 50 mg/m2/Thiotepa 10 mg/m2/TBI 400cGy.

Following successful engraftment in the first cohort, second cohort (10 patients) will only receive single manipulated unit.

Otherwise, patients will receive standard allogeneic stem cell transplantation care.