Boron Neutron Capture Therapy (BNCT) Combined With Cetuximab in the Treatment of Locally Recurred Head and Neck Cancer
The purpose of the study is to investigate efficacy and safety boron neutron capture therapy (BNCT) administered in combination with cetuximab in the treatment of head and neck cancer that has recurred locally following conventional cancer treatment (surgery and radiation therapy). Boron neutron capture therapy is a special form of radiation therapy, which is based on interaction between boron atoms taken up by the cancerous tissue and neutron irradiation. The boron atoms, located within cancer cells, may capture low-energy neutrons obtained from a nuclear accelerator, which results in splitting up (fission) of the boron atoms, and a high radiation effect within the tumor. Cetuximab is an antibody directed against certain proteins found on cancer cell surface (epidermal growth factor receptors). When administered immediately after BNCT, cetuximab may or may not improve treatment efficacy.
Head and Neck Cancer
RADIATION: BNCT|DRUG: cetuximab
Response rate, December 2010
Safety, December 2010|Duration of treatment response, December 2010|Time to progression, December 2010|Survival, December 2010|Adverse events, December 2010
This is a single-center, non-randomized, non-comparative, open-label, phase I/II trial to determine safety and efficacy of BNCT in the treatment of nonoperable, irradiated, locally advanced cancers of the head and neck region. Patients will be treated with a single-fraction boronophenylalanine (BPA)-based BNCT. All patients will be evaluated for response using CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

Neutron irradiation will first be planned based on the available tumor imaging examinations, following which the head and body position will be determined for irradiation, and head fixation will be prepared and tested. On the irradiation day 400 mg/m2 L-BPA-F will be infused intravenously over 2 hours. Cetuximab doses will be administered following completion of BNCT. The cetuximab doses will be escalated in cohorts of 3 patients.