Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Prostate Cancer That Has Not Responded to Hormone Therapy
Rationale: Vaccines may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells. It is not yet known if vaccine therapy is effective for prostate cancer.

Purpose: Randomized phase III trial to determine the effectiveness of vaccine therapy in treating patients who have metastatic prostate cancer that has not responded to hormone therapy.
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: sipuleucel-T|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo
Time to Objective Disease Progression, The time to objective disease progression in patients with asymptomatic metastatic hormone-refractory prostate cancer treated with APC8015 (sipuleucel-T)., 36 months from randomization
Overall Survival, Overall Survival, From randomization to 36 months
Objectives:

I. Compare the time to progression, time to development of disease-related pain, and incidence of grade 3 or worse treatment-related adverse events in patients with asymptomatic metastatic hormone refractory adenocarcinoma of the prostate treated with APC8015 versus control infusion. II. Compare response rate and duration of response in these patients.

Outline: This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms. Arm I: Autologous dendritic cell precursors (ADCP) are harvested on weeks 0, 2, and 4. Patients receive APC8015 comprised of ADCP activated with prostatic acid phosphatase-sargramostim (GM-CSF) fusion protein IV over 30 minutes beginning 2 days after each harvest for a total of 3 infusions. Arm II: ADCP are harvested as in arm I. Patients receive unactivated ADCP IV over 30 minutes beginning 2 days after each harvest for a total of 3 infusions. Pain is assessed weekly for up to 3 years or until 4 weeks after objective disease progression. Patients are followed monthly for up to 3 years or until disease progression. At the time of disease progression, patients treated on arm II may receive treatment on Protocol D9903.

Projected Accrual: A total of 120 patients (80 in arm I and 40 in arm II) will be accrued for this study.