Personalized Maintenance Therapy for m-PDAC Using Olaparib or Selumetinib + Durvalumab, Based on BRCAness and KRAS Status.
MAZEPPA is open-label, phase II study to assess the efficacy of a genomic-driven maintenance therapy in terms of PFS in Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients with disease controlled after 4 months of mFOLFIRINOX chemotherapy as following:

Patients with a BRCAness somatic profile: olaparib Arm A. Patients with no BRCAness profile and with KRAS mutation randomization between durvalumab plus selumetinib Arm B, versus FOLFIRI Arm C.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Arm A - Olaparib|DRUG: ARM B - durvalumab plus selumetinib|DRUG: ARM C FOLFIRI
ARM A - Progression free survival (PFS), PFS rate at 4 months is defined by the number of patients alive at 4 months from inclusion without PD divided by the total number of patients evaluable at 4 months (dead during 4 months or alive at 4 months with a progressive status available)., at 4 months|ARM B/ C - PFS, PFS is defined as time from randomization into arm B/C to the date of first documented PD RECIST 1.1 and/or iRECIST for arm B and PD RECIST1.1 for arm C or death., Assessed up to 36 months
Disease control rate (DCR), DCR is the percentage of patients who achieve CR, PR, or SD to study treatment (according to RECIST 1.1)., Measured at 16 weeks of maintenance therapy.|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR is the number of patients with a best overall response of CR or PR divided by the number of all treated (at least 1 dose of study treatment) patients., Assessed up to 36 months|Overall survival (OS), OS is the time between the date of inclusion into Arm A or Arms B/C and death, Assessed up to 36 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events, All grade and severe toxicities, according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, Assessed up to 36 months|Time to HRQoL score definitive deterioration (TUDD), TUDD is defined as the time interval between inclusion into Arm A and randomization into Arms B/C and the first occurrence of a decrease in QLQ-C30 score for dimension ⩾5 points compared to baseline HRQoL score without any further improvement in QoL score ⩾5 points or any further available QoL data., At baseline, at every 2 months during treatment, and at the end of treatment visit. Assessed up to 36 months
Searching for efficient maintenance therapies in metastatic PDAC patients whose disease has been controlled using an induction chemotherapy is crucial for two main reasons:

1. Patients may stop IV toxic chemotherapy while their tumor remains under control. Although up to 70% of PDAC patients achieve tumor control when treated during induction with mFOLFIRINOX, toxicity of this regimen, particularly neuropathy and fatigue, remains a key concern.
2. Tumor control may be extended, which might improve quality of life (QoL) and survival.

Patients are included in MAZEPPA study based on the genetic profile of their tumor.

* If a BRCA gene mutation is present in the tumor, treatment with the drug olaparib will be proposed (arm A), regardless of the status of the other genes analyzed.
* In the absence of a mutation in the BRCA gene and in the presence of a mutation in the KRAS gene, a treatment combining immunotherapy and targeted therapy (durvalumab and selumetinib - Arm B) or chemotherapy by FOLFIRI (arm C) will be proposed.