THERApy De-escalation for TESTicular Cancer
THERATEST is looking to collect data from 30 patients actively receiving de-escalation treatments or other standard of care treatments in two UK hospitals. THERATEST is a feasibility study to determine whether patients are willing to be recruited, the impact of de-escalation treatments on patients' cancers and quality of life, whether we should proceed with these treatments in a larger study, and if so how the study should be conducted. A feasibility study prepares the ground for a larger study and improves the chances of the subsequent study producing valuable evidence, and helps to avoid wasting precious resources on larger trials that are unlikely to be informative. We hope that information from THERATEST will bridge the current knowledge gap and allow clinicians to design bigger trials to actively compare the different treatment strategies.
Seminoma
PROCEDURE: retroperitoneal lymph node dissection|DRUG: Carboplatin AUC10
FEASIBILITY of recruitment and retention, To demonstrate feasibility of recruitment and retention (number of participants recruited per month and retained annually). Completion of recruitment of 30 patients into the THERATEST study, and measurement of overall patient retention within the trial until the 2-year follow-up visit., through study completion, an average of 3 year
QUALITY OF LIFE assessed by difference in HRQOL scores, To determine differences in Health-related QOL (HRQOL) before and after treatment(s). Change in domain scale scores/single item scores in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-TC26 and EORTC QLQ-C30, measured from baseline until the 2-year follow-up visit., through study completion, an average of 3 year|QUALITY OF LIFE assessed by difference in differences in sexual drive, function, and overall satisfaction, To determine differences in sexual drive, function, and overall satisfaction before and after treatment(s). Change in domain scale scores/single item scores in Brief Male Sexual Function Inventory (BMSFI), QLQ-TC26, and supplementary questions on retrograde ejaculation. Measured from baseline until the 2-year follow-up visit., through study completion, an average of 3 year|Progression free SURVIVAL, • To determine progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) rates ensuring these fall in line with standard of care treatments outcomes (\>95%). PFS rate at 2 years, defined as the proportion of patients who did not experience disease progression or death from any cause during the 2-year follow-up period., through study completion, an average of 3 year|OVERALL SURVIVAL, • To determine progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) rates ensuring these fall in line with standard of care treatments outcomes (\>95%). OS rate at 2 years, defined as the proportion of patients who did not experience death from any cause during the 2-year follow-up period., through study completion, an average of 3 year|SAFETY and complication of all treatments, • To assess the safety and complications of all treatments. Incidence, nature and severity of adverse events with severity determined according to CTCAE v5.0 collected from consent until 6 weeks post-surgery or chemotherapy.

Surgical complications will be assessed by the Clavien-Dindo scoring system, and analysing details of surgical complications, blood transfusion, ITU admission and dialysis rates from patient records up to 6 months post-rRPLND., through study completion, an average of 3 year
THERATEST is an observational cohort study of patients receiving SOC treatments (combination chemotherapy or radiotherapy) or de-escalated treatments (primary rRPLND or Carboplatin AUC10) treatments for stage II seminoma.

Potential patients will be identified and invited to join the THERATEST study. Patients will be allocated to the following cohorts based on whether the relevant mode of treatment is adopted as an institutional SOC in their respective institution:

A. rRPLND cohort: Patients with seminoma who are negative/low for tumour markers and unifocal ipsilateral Stage IIA or \<3cm IIB will be assessed for rRPLND. Patients who are eligible for rRPLND will undergo surgery followed by adjuvant treatment or surveillance as determined by their clinical teams based on post-operative histology as per SOC. Patients who are not deemed eligible for or decline rRPLND, will be offered either BEP/EP chemotherapy or radiotherapy with or without neoadjuvant Carboplatin AUC7 and will continue to be followed in the study.

B. Carboplatin AUC10 cohort: Patients with stage II seminoma will be offered Carboplatin AUC10. Those deemed ineligible for Carboplatin AUC10 or who decline this treatment option will be offered either BEP/EP chemotherapy or radiotherapy and will continue to be followed in the study.

Chemotherapy treatment strategies and adjuvant treatments are left to the shared decision-making between treating clinician and patient and follow institutional SOC. In both cohorts patients will be followed up for 2 years after treatment completion or until death or withdrawal of consent, whichever is the earliest. Beyond the study period, patients will be follow up as per institutional SOC protocols as part of prospective institutional audits.