5FU/LV, Irinotecan, Temozolomide and Bevacizumab for MGMT Silenced, Microsatellite Stable Metastatic Colorectal Cancer.
An upfront-intensified treatment combining all the three active cytotoxic agents in metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) including fluoropyrimidines, oxaliplatin, irinotecan (FOLFOXIRI) plus antiangiogenic blockade with bevacizumab significantly improved survival. No biomarkers are available for predicting sensitivity/resistance to single chemotherapeutic drugs, the simultaneous delivery of all active chemotherapeutic agents might overcome resistance to single drugs.

Temozolomide has modest but non-negligible activity (about 10%) in chemo-refractory patients with MGMT methylated mCRC. The response rate to temozolomide-based therapy in pretreated patients is increased to up to 20% when restricting the focus on those with MGMT IHC-negative/MGMT methylated and MSS cancers. Clinical and preclinical synergy has been reported for combination of temozolomide with irinotecan and fluoropyrimidines. Temozolomide could be regarded as a "targeted" chemotherapy for patients with MSS and MGMT silenced tumors. In this subgroup of patients, an intensified triplet upfront regimen including temozolomide, fluoropyrimidines, irinotecan, associated with bevacizumab, could be a novel combination in molecularly super-selected mCRC patients.

Moving from this, the investigators designed this open-label, monocentric, phase 1b study evaluating the safety of the combination regimen 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, temozolomide and bevacizumab in patients with MGMT silenced and MSS mCRC.

The study will consist in a dose-escalation assessment of the safety of the treatment in subjects with previously untreated MGMT silenced, MSS mCRC. A 3 + 3 design will be used to assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum tested dose of the combination FLIRT-bevacizumab.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: 5Fluorouracil|DRUG: Temozolomide
To evaluate the safety and to determine the recommended phase 2 dose of the combination of FLIRT- bevacizumab in patients with MGMT silenced and MSS mCRC, previously untreated for advanced disease, The RD to be tested in a future phase 2 trial will be one dose level below the MTD or the maximum tested dose if MTD will not be reached. he MTD will be defined as the dose level at which ≥2/3 or ≥2/6 subjects experience a dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients should be treated at the RD during the dose escalation., 24 months
ORR obtained by FLIRT bevacizumab, To assess ORR per RECIST version 1.1, 24 months|Quality of life as assessed using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), EORTC QLQ-C30 administered every 8 weeks, 24 months|Quality of life as assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Colorectal Cancer 29 (EORTC QLQ-CR29), EORTC QLQ-CR29 administered every 8 weeks, 24 months|Quality of life as assessed using the Euro Quality of Life 5 Dimensions Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), EQ-5D-5L administered every 8 weeks, 24 months
Evaluate tumor biomarkers in archival tumor tissue, Quantification of the percentage of MGMT methylation by digital PCR methylBEAMing will be performed in archival tumor tissue. Mutational load will be assessed in archival tumor tissues by means of whole exome sequencing., 24 months|Evaluate plasma biomarkers in longitudinal blood samples (plasma and PBMCs), Digital PCR for MGMT methylation status will be performed in cell-free circulating DNA (cfDNA). Mutational load will be assessed in cfDNA by means of whole exome sequencing., 24 months|PFS of FLIRT bevacizumab, FS is defined as the time from enrolment to the first documentation of objective disease progression determined by investigator assessment or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS will be censored on the date of the last evaluable on study tumour assessment documenting absence of progressive disease for patients who are alive, on study and progression free at the time of the analysis. Alive patients having no tumour assessments after baseline will have time to event censored on the date of enrolment, 24 months|OS of FLIRT bevacizumab, OS is defined as the time from enrolment to the date of death due to any cause. For patients still alive at the time of analysis, the OS time will be censored on the last date the patients were known to be alive., 24 months
An upfront-intensified treatment combining all the three active cytotoxic agents in mCRC including fluoropyrimidines, oxaliplatin, irinotecan (FOLFOXIRI) plus antiangiogenic blockade with bevacizumab significantly improved progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and objective response rate (ORR) compared to standard FOLFIRI and bevacizumab irrespective to RAS/BRAF status, at price of higher rate of specific toxicities. Advantages of an intensified regimen include: 1) exposure to all active available drugs, since more than 10-15% of patients would not receive any second-line therapy due to early performance status deterioration; 2) the chance of achieving a high rate (around 36%) of secondary R0/R1 resection of metastases in patients with liver-limited and initially unresectable liver metastases.

Furthermore, results from the phase 3 TRIBE2 study showed that the intensified upfront regimen FOLFOXIRI-bevacizumab followed by the pre-planned reintroduction of the same agents after progressive disease provided a statistically significant and clinically relevant survival benefit when compared with the pre-planned sequential administration of FOLFOX-bevacizumab and FOLFIRI-bevacizumab in unresectable patients with mCRC. Therefore, FOLFOXIRI-bevacizumab regimen is recommended by all major guidelines as one of the possible upfront treatment options for mCRC, and is used in the clinical practice mainly for patients with highly aggressive disease (such as those with right sided and/or RAS or BRAF mutated). Notably, since no biomarkers are available for predicting sensitivity/resistance to single chemotherapeutic drugs, the simultaneous delivery of all active chemotherapeutic agents might overcome resistance to single drugs.

MGMT promoter methylation is found in about 40% of colorectal tumors. MGMT deficiency impairs DNA repair following administration of several alkylating agents, including temozolomide. Temozolomide has limited single-agent activity (around 10%) in patients with pretreated MGMT methylated mCRC. Promising activity has been reported for temozolomide in combination with the potentially synergic drug irinotecan (TEMIRI regimen) in clinically and molecularly selected patients. In a recent phase 2 randomized trial, capecitabine in combination with temozolomide (CAPTEM regimen) displayed similar activity and efficacy with respect to standard FOLFIRI as second-line therapy for MGMT methylated RAS mutated mCRC.

Heterogeneity of MGMT promoter methylation and residual MGMT protein expression might account for lack of activity of temozolomide in patients with MGMT promoter methylation assessed by means of a qualitative-only assay, i.e. methylation-specific PCR (MSP), which has been used as selection assay for patients' enrollment in published trials. Exploratory analyses have consistently shown the role of quantitative assessment of MGMT promoter methylation by means of digital PCR (methylBEAMing) and MGMT protein expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) as potential predictive factors in mCRC patients treated with temozolomide. In the randomized phase 2 CAPTEM versus FOLFIRI second-line trial, patients with retained MGMT positivity by IHC had poorer outcomes in terms of PFS, OS and disease control rate (DCR: interaction test with arm: P=0.028). Any residual MGMT protein expression has been associated with lack of response to temozolomide across different trials, further supporting the restriction of temozolomide-based therapies for patients with MGMT IHC negativity coupled with gene methylation (MGMT silencing).

Mismatch repair deficiency/microsatellite instability (MSI) has been linked to innate resistance to several alkylating chemotherapeutic agents, including temozolomide, since cytotoxicity of these agents strictly relies on functional mismatch repair. Therefore, patients with MSI-high mCRC are excluded from temozolomide-based therapy.

Temozolomide could be regarded as a "targeted" chemotherapy for patients with MSS and MGMT silenced tumors. In this subgroup of patients, an intensified triplet upfront regimen including temozolomide, fluoropyrimidines, irinotecan, associated with bevacizumab, could be a novel combination in molecularly hyperselected mCRC patients.

Moving from this rationale the investigators designed this phase 1b trial assessing safety, recommended dose and preliminary activity of 5-fluoruracil, irinotecan, temozolomide and bevacizumab (FLIRT-bevacizumab) as a biomarker-guided initial therapy for patients with MGMT silenced and MSS mCRC.

The study will consist in a dose-escalation assessment of the safety of the treatment in subjects with previously untreated MGMT silenced, MSS mCRC.

A 3 + 3 design will be used to assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum tested dose of the combination FLIRT-bevacizumab.

The MTD will be defined as the dose level at which ≥2/3 or ≥2/6 subjects experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). When the MTD or maximum tested dose has been determined or reached, the RP2D to be tested in a future phase II trial will be one dose level below the MTD or the maximum tested dose if MTD will not be reached. At least 6 patients should be treated at the RD during the dose escalation.

The treatment will consist of an induction period of four 28-day cycles of FLIRT- bevacizumab followed by maintenance regimen of 5-FU/LV-bevacizumab administered every 14 days in combination with per os temozolomide according to dose level over days 1-5 every 28 days in patients without progressive disease at the end of the induction period. Patients will undergo tumor assessment at baseline and every 8 ± 1 weeks until confirmed disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, death, whichever occurs first. The treatment will continue until progressive disease, unacceptable toxicities, or consent withdrawal.