Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy With or Without Metformin Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well chemotherapy and radiation therapy given with or without metformin hydrochloride works in treating patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Metformin hydrochloride may shrink tumors and keep them from coming back. It is not yet known whether chemotherapy and radiation therapy is more effective when given with or without metformin hydrochloride in treating stage III non-small cell lung cancer.
Adenosquamous Lung Carcinoma|Bronchioloalveolar Carcinoma|Large Cell Lung Carcinoma|Lung Adenocarcinoma|Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Percentage of Participants Alive Without Progression (Progression-free Survival), Progression is defined per RECIST v1.1 as change in a known lesion(s) meeting one of the following criteria: \[1\] At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions such that the absolute increase must be \> 5 mm. \[2\] Appearance of ≥1 new lesions. Progression-free survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first progression, death, or last known follow-up (censored). Progression-free survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. One-year rates are provided. Analysis occurred after 102 progression-free survival events were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 47.2 months.
Percentage of Participants Alive (Overall Survival), Overall survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Overall survival rates are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. One-year rates are provided. Analysis occurred after 102 progression-free survival events were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 47.2 months.|Percentage of Participants With Local-regional Progression, Local-regional progression (LRP) is defined as progression within the planned treatment volume (PTV) or outside the PTV but within the same lobe(s) of the lung as the primary tumor or in regional lymph nodes. Progression is defined as change in a known lesion(s) meeting one of the following criteria: \[1\] ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions such that the absolute increase must be \> 5 mm. \[2\] Appearance of ≥1 new lesions. LRP time is defined as time from randomization to the date of first LRP, death without LRP (competing risk), or last known follow-up (censored). LRP rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. One-year rates are provided. Analysis occurred after 102 LRP events were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 47.2 months.|Percentage of Participants With Distant Metastases, Distant metastasis (DM) is defined as the appearance of ≥ 1 new lesions at any site (including pleural or pericardial effusion) outside of the following: the planned treatment volume, the same lobe(s) of the lung as the primary tumor, or regional lymph nodes. Time to DM is defined as time from randomization to the date of first DM, death without DM (competing risk), or last known follow-up (censored). DM rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. One-year rates are provided. Analysis occurred after 102 progression-free survival events were reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 47.2 months.|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-related Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, Adverse events (AE) were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. The CTCAE v4.0 assigns Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild, Grade 2 Moderate, Grade 3 Severe, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling, Grade 5 Death related to adverse event. "Treatment-related" is defined definitely, probably, or possibly related to treatment., From start of treatment to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 47.2 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether metformin hydrochloride (MET) added to chemoradiotherapy can improve progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the effects of MET on overall survival (OS), time to local-regional progression (LRP), and time to distant metastasis (DM).

II. Evaluate the effect of MET on chemoradiotherapy toxicity (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4 \[CTCAE, v. 4\]) within 1 year of completion of all treatment.

III. Collect biospecimens to develop biomarkers of MET activity.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks, every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.