PEG-ASP+Gemoxd vs. PEG-ASP+CHOP as First-line Chemotherapy to Treatment NK/T-cell Lymphoma With Early Stage
Extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (ENKTL) is an aggressive subtype of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and shows extremely poor survival. Several retrospective studies and singe-arm prospective phase 2 studies have shown that pegaspargase combined Gemox or CHOP regimen achieved a promising efficacy in treatment of ENKTL. However, there is no prospective study to compare the efficacy of these two regimens. This prospective pilot study to compare the efficacy and safety of the P-Gemoxd chemotherapy regimen with those of the P-CHOP regimen for stage IE to IIE ENKTL.
Lymphoma
DRUG: pegaspargase|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Prednisone|RADIATION: IMRT
Objective response rate（complete remission rate + partial remission rate）, The criteria for the efficacy evaluation (overall response rate and complete remission) of the regimen is according to the following article: Cheson BD, Fisher RI, Barrington SF, et al. Recommendations for initial evaluation, staging, and response assessment of Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma: the Lugano classification. J Clin Oncol. 2014 Sep 20;32(27):3059-68., every 6 weeks,up to completion of treatment (approximately 6 months)|progression free survival, time from the date of enrollment to date of disease progression, or death of any cause, or date of lost follow-up, whichever comes first, up to end of follow-up-phase (approximately 3 years)|overall survival, overall survival (OS): time from the date of enrollment to date of death from any cause, or date of lost follow-up, whichever comes first, up to end of follow-up-phase (approximately 3 years)
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v3.0, including hematological safety and non-hematological safety. All the adverse events will be classified according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v3.0 (CTCAE), every 3 weeks,up to completion of treatment (approximately 6 months)
Serum Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA copies, every 3 weeks,up to completion of treatment (approximately 6 months)
Treatment PA-Gemoxd dosages were as follows: days 1 and 5, 30-min intravenous infusion of 800 mg/m2 gemcitabine; day 1, 2-h intravenous infusion of 85 mg/m2 oxaliplatin; day 1, deep intramuscular injection of 2000 U/m2 PEG-ASP at four different sites; d1-5, intravenous infusion of 15mg dexamethasone. The regimen was repeated every 3 weeks for four cycles followed by involved-field radiotherapy after got CR, PR or SD. Three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy was done by linear accelerator at 2.0 grays (Gy) per daily fraction with 5-6 weeks. The involved- field radiation (IFRT) dose was 50-56 Gy.