Imatinib Mesylate and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Philadelphia Chromosome Positive Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This randomized phase III trial studies how well imatinib mesylate works in combination with two different chemotherapy regimens in treating patients with newly diagnosed Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Imatinib mesylate has been shown to improve outcomes in children and adolescents with Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) ALL when given with strong chemotherapy, but the combination has many side effects. This trial is testing whether a different chemotherapy regimen may work as well as the stronger one but have fewer side effects when given with imatinib. The trial is also testing how well the combination of chemotherapy and imatinib works in another group of patients with a type of ALL that is similar to Ph+ ALL. This type of ALL is called "ABL-class fusion positive ALL", and because it is similar to Ph+ ALL, is thought it will respond well to the combination of agents used to treat Ph+ ALL.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia|T Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Calaspargase Pegol|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Dexrazoxane Hydrochloride|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Etoposide|BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim|DRUG: Ifosfamide|DRUG: Imatinib Mesylate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Levoleucovorin|DRUG: Mercaptopurine|DRUG: Mercaptopurine|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Methylprednisolone|DRUG: Pegaspargase|DRUG: Prednisolone|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Therapeutic Hydrocortisone|DRUG: Thioguanine|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Disease free survival (DFS) of Randomized Arms (standard risk [SR] Philadelphia chromosome [Ph+] acute lymphoblastic leukemia [ALL] patients), Three-year DFS and 95% confidence intervals (CI) of SR Ph+ ALL patients treated continuous imatinib mesylate with high risk Children's Oncology Group (COG)-ALL chemotherapy backbone or more intensive European (Es)PhALL chemotherapy backbone., Up to 3 years
DFS on Randomized Arms (SR Ph+ ALL and ABL-class fusion positive patients), Three-year DFS (time from randomization to relapse, second malignancy, or death in complete remission) and 95% CI of SR pediatric Ph+ and ABL-class fusion positive patients treated with continuous imatinib combined with either a high-risk COG-ALL chemotherapy backbone or the more intensive EsPhALL chemotherapy backbone., Up to 3 years|Feasibility of post hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) imatinib mesylate administration after allogenic HSCT in high risk Ph+ ALL patients, The proportion of patients who receive at least 75% of intended doses., Up to 2 years|Event free survival (EFS) of high risk pediatric Ph+ ALL patients treated with EsPhALL chemotherapy, HSCT in first complete remission, and post-HSCT imatinib mesylate, Three-year EFS and 95% CI for high risk pediatric Ph+ ALL patients treated with EsPhALL chemotherapy, HSCT in first complete remission, and post-HSCT imatinib mesylate. EFS is defined as the time from the date of bone marrow for minimal residual disease (MRD) assessment at end-IB to first event (resistant disease \[MRD \>= 10-2 or morphologic residual disease at end of consolidation block 3\], relapse, progressive disease \[i.e., MRD \>= 10-2 at two post-HSCT time points separated by at least 2 weeks\], second malignancy, or death in complete remission), or time to last follow-up for patients without events., Up to 3 years|Incidence of grade 3 or higher infections in standard risk Ph+ ALL patients in the two randomized arms, Evaluated according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The rate of infections during the post IB/pre-maintenance phases of treatment will be described for each randomization group., Up to 3 years|EFS of all Ph+ patients, Three-year EFS and 95% CI for Ph+ ALL patients. EFS here is defined as the time from enrollment until resistant disease, relapse, progressive disease post-HSCT, second malignant, or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS) of all Ph+ patients, Three-year OS and 95% CI for Ph+ ALL patients. OS is defined as the time from study enrollment to death from any cause., Up to 3 years|OS of SR Ph+ patients, Three-year OS (time from randomization to death from any cause) and 95% CI of SR pediatric Ph+ patients, Up to 3 years|OS of SR Ph+ patients by randomization group, Three-year OS (time from randomization to death from any cause) and 95% CI of SR pediatric Ph+ patients by randomization group: treated with continuous imatinib combined with either a high-risk COG-ALL chemotherapy backbone or the more intensive EsPhALL chemotherapy backbone., Up to 3 years|OS of high risk Ph+ patients, Three-year OS (time from the date of MRD assessment at end-IB to death from any cause) and 95% CI of HR pediatric Ph+ patients., Up to 3 years|EFS of all eligibility ABL-class fusion positive ALL patients, Three-year EFS (time from enrollment until resistant disease, relapse, progressive disease post-HSCT, second malignancy, or death, whichever occurs first) and 95% CI of ABL-class fusion positive patients., Up to 3 years|OS of all eligibility ABL-class fusion positive ALL patients, Three-year OS (the time from study enrollment to death from any cause) and 95% CI of ABL-class fusion positive patients., Up to 3 years
Incidence of toxicities associated with post-HSCT administration of imatinib mesylate, Evaluated according to NCI CTCAE version 5.0. Frequencies of target toxicities in high risk patients after the initiation of post-HSCT imatinib mesylate will be described. For the high risk patients, the specific targeted toxicities will include grade 4 neutropenia, grade 4 thrombocytopenia, grade 3 or higher bilirubin, grade 4 or higher transaminitis, and grade 3 or higher infection., Up to 2 years|Incidence of long-term toxicities in patients treated with chemotherapy plus imatinib mesylate (no transplant) in both arms, Evaluated according to NCI CTCAE version 5.0. Frequencies of long-term toxicities will be described and differences between randomized arms will be explored. Specific long-term toxicities to be explored include cardiac (echocardiographic abnormalities, including decreased left ventricular (LV) function and decreased LV wall thickness), growth (linear height, bone age), and second malignant neoplasm., Up to 3 years|MRD measured by IGH-T cell receptor (TCR) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and next generation sequencing (NGS) assay, For all patients, frequencies and prognostic significance (DFS, EFS, OS) will be explored for MRD levels (i.e., MRD negative, detectable at \< 5 x 10\^-4, and dectectable at \>= 5 x 10\^-4) at end of Induction IB., Up to 6 months|MRD in high risk Ph+ patients measured by IGH-TCR PCR and NGS assay, The outcome of high risk Ph+ patients will be described, including proportion of patients who achieve MRD-negativity just prior to HSCT, and at regular intervals post-HSCT. Associations between these findings and long-term outcomes (e.g., OS, DFS) will be explored., Up to 3 years|MRD assessments made by IGH-TCR PCR assay and NGS assay, Concordance of MRD assessments made by IGH-TCR PCR assay and NGS assay will be described and evaluated. Scatter plots and diagrams will be used to examine agreements and patterns of agreement or any differences found. Concordance will be explored both for the overall cohort, as well as by risk group. The increased sensitivity of the NGS will be closely examined to find cases where the MRD levels are detectable by NGS but undetectable by PCR, as well as cases in which one test yields results and the other does not (test failure). Prognostic relationships on outcomes for these subjects will be inspected., Up to 3 years|IKZF1 deletions alone, Will determine and validate if IKZF1 deletions alone predict poor outcomes in Ph+/ABL-class Ph-like ALL in patients treated on AALL1631., Up to 3 years|IKZF1 deletions with other transcription factor deletions, Will determine and validate if IKZF1 deletions with other transcription factor deletions predict poor outcomes in Ph+/ABL-class Ph-like ALL in patients treated on AALL1631., Up to 3 years|Other identified genetic lesions, Will determine and validate if other identified genetic lesions predict poor outcomes in Ph+/ABL-class Ph-like ALL in patients treated on AALL1631., Up to 3 years|Frequency of p190 and p210 BCR::ABL1 fusion variants, For both standard risk and high risk groups, frequencies and prognostic significance (OS, DFS) will be explored for p190 and p210 BCR::ABL1 fusion variants in pediatric Ph+ ALL/ABL-class Ph-like ALL., Up to 3 years|Adherence to oral chemotherapeutic agents in standard risk Ph+ ALL patients, Adherence to imatinib mesylate, 6-mercaptopurine, and methotrexate will be evaluated in COG-enrolled participants using an electronic monitoring device. Adherence rate will be computed for each month of adherence monitoring. Longitudinal binomial regression will be conducted using generalized estimating equation methods by modeling monthly adherence rate as an unstructured mean model using five indicator variables of time for the study months. Time in months will also be treated as a continuous variable to explore temporal trends in adherence rate. Compound symmetry will be assumed as the working correlation matrix over time. Covariates that will be considered for adjustment include those hypothesized to be predictors of adherence, annual household income, parental education, time since start of maintenance, risk classification for ALL, and imatinib, 6-mercaptopurine (6MP), and methotrexate dose-intensity., Up to 2 years|Adherence to imatinib mesylate after allogeneic HSCT in high risk Ph+ ALL patients, Longitudinal binomial regression will be conducted using generalized estimating equation methods by modeling monthly adherence rate as an unstructured mean model using five indicator variables of time for the study months. Time in months will also be treated as a continuous variable to explore temporal trends in adherence rate. Compound symmetry will be assumed as the working correlation matrix over time. Covariates that will be considered for adjustment include those hypothesized to be predictors of adherence, annual household income, parental education, time since start of maintenance, risk classification for ALL, and imatinib, 6MP, and methotrexate dose-intensity., Up to 2 years|Therapeutic impact of major secondary events, Will determine the potential therapeutic impact of major secondary events via pharmacologic inhibitor screens in existing/engineered cell models of Ph+ and ABL-class Ph-like ALL harboring secondary events., Up to 3 years|In vivo activity, Will test the in vivo activity of the most compelling candidate compounds from pilot studies using patient-derived xenograft models established from Ph+ and ABL-class Ph-like ALL samples collected from patients treated on AALL1631., Up to 3 years|Molecular heterogeneity, Will decipher the molecular heterogeneity of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)-like versus typical Ph+ ALL via single-cell genomics and functional assays., Up to 3 years|Cellular heterogeneity, Will decipher the cellular heterogeneity of CML-like versus typical Ph+ ALL via single-cell genomics and functional assays., Up to 3 years|CML-like phenotypes, Will investigate CML-like phenotypes via single-cell ribonucleic acid and deoxyribonucleic acid sequencing to identify distinct transcriptomic and mutational profiles that will provide novel opportunities for diagnostic and therapeutic interventions., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare disease-free survival (DFS) of standard risk (SR) pediatric Philadelphia chromosome (Ph)+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) treated with continuous imatinib mesylate (imatinib) combined with either a high-risk Children's Oncology Group (COG) ALL chemotherapy backbone or the more intensive European (Es)PhALL chemotherapy backbone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare DFS of SR pediatric Ph+ and ABL-class fusion positive ALL patients treated with continuous imatinib combined with either a high-risk COG-ALL chemotherapy backbone or the more intensive EsPhALL chemotherapy backbone.

II. To determine the feasibility of administration of imatinib after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in high risk (HR) Ph+ ALL patients.

III. To determine event-free survival (EFS) of HR pediatric Ph+ ALL patients treated with EsPhALL chemotherapy, HSCT in first complete remission and post-HSCT imatinib.

IV. To compare rates of grade 3 or higher infections in standard risk (SR) Ph+ ALL patients between the two randomized arms.

V. To evaluate EFS and overall survival (OS) of all eligible Ph+ALL patients enrolled on the study.

VI. To evaluate OS in SR Ph+ ALL patients. VII. To evaluate OS in HR Ph+ ALL patients. VIII. To evaluate EFS and OS of all eligible ABL-class fusion positive ALL patients enrolled on the study.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicities associated with post-HSCT administration of imatinib in HR Ph+ALL patients.

II. To evaluate the long-term toxicities in SR Ph+ ALL patients treated with chemotherapy plus imatinib (no transplant), overall and between both randomized arms.

III. To determine prognostic significance of minimal residual disease (MRD) in Ph+ ALL at various time points during therapy.

IIIa. To evaluate MRD in HR patients just prior to HSCT and then at regular intervals post-HSCT and explore the association of these measurements with long-term outcome.

IIIb. To evaluate concordance of MRD assessments made by IGH-T cell receptor (TCR) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay and next generation sequencing (NGS) assays.

IV. To determine and validate if IKZF1 deletions alone (IKZF1del) or with other transcription factor deletions (ie, IKZF1 plus subtype \[IKZF1plus\]) or other identified genetic lesions predict poor outcomes in Ph+/ABL-class Ph-like ALL in patients treated on AALL1631.

V. To determine the frequency and prognostic significance of p190 and p210 BCR::ABL1 fusion variants in pediatric Ph+ ALL/ABL-class Ph-like ALL.

VI. To measure adherence to oral chemotherapeutic agents (imatinib, 6-mercaptopurine and methotrexate) during the maintenance phase in SR Ph+ ALL patients.

VIa. To identify factors associated with poor adherence. VIb. To determine association between relapse risk and adherence to each oral chemotherapeutic agent (separately and combined).

VII. To measure adherence to imatinib after allogeneic HSCT in HR Ph+ ALL patients and identify factors associated with poor adherence.

VIII. To compare DFS of SR ABL-class fusion positive ALL patients treated with continuous imatinib combined with either a high-risk COG-ALL chemotherapy backbone or the more intensive EsPhALL chemotherapy backbone.

IX. To determine the potential therapeutic impact of major secondary events via pharmacologic inhibitor screens in existing/engineered cell models of Ph+ and ABL-class Ph-like ALL harboring secondary events and to test the in vivo activity of the most compelling candidate compounds from pilot studies using patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models established from Ph+ and ABL-class Ph-like ALL samples collected from patients treated on AALL1631.

X. To decipher the molecular and cellular heterogeneity of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML)-like versus typical Ph+ ALL via single-cell genomics and functional assays and investigate CML-like phenotypes via single-cell ribonucleic acid (RNA) and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) sequencing to identify distinct transcriptomic and mutational profiles that will provide novel opportunities for diagnostic and therapeutic interventions.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION IA PART 1: Patients receive induction IA according to standard of care on days 1-14.

INDUCTION IA PART 2: Patients receive imatinib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days 15-33, prednisolone PO twice daily (BID) or methylprednisolone intravenously (IV) on days 15-28, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 15 and 22, daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on days 15 and 22, and methotrexate intrathecally (IT) on day 29.

INDUCTION IB: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-35, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 28, mercaptopurine PO on days 1-28, cytarabine IV or subcutaneously (SC) on days 3-6, 10-13, 17-20, and 24-27, and methotrexate IT on days 10 and 24.

POST-INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients classified as standard risk are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. Patients with high risk are assigned to Arm C.

ARM A:

CONSOLIDATION BLOCK 1: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-21, methotrexate IT, cytarabine IT, and therapeutic hydrocortisone IT on day 1, high dose methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 1, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1 and 6, dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-5, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on days 2-4, leucovorin calcium or levoleucovorin PO or IV on days 3 and 4, high dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours and pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours on day 5, and filgrastim SC or IV on days 7-11 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION BLOCK 2: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-21, methotrexate IT, cytarabine IT, and therapeutic hydrocortisone IT on day 1, high dose methotrexate IV over 24 hours on day 1, dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-5, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1 and 6, ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 2-4, leucovorin calcium or levoleucovorin PO or IV on days 3 and 4, dexrazoxane hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes and daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on day 5, pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours on day 6, and filgrastim SC or IV on days 7-11 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION BLOCK 3: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-21, high dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-3, dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-5, etoposide IV over 1-2 hours on days 3-5, methotrexate IT, cytarabine IT, and therapeutic hydrocortisone IT on day 5, pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours on day 6, and filgrastim SC or IV on days 7-11 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

DELAYED INTENSIFICATION 1 PART 1: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-35, methotrexate IT on day 1, dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-7 and 15-21, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute, dexrazoxane hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes, and doxorubicin IV over 3-15 minutes on days 8, 15, 22, and 29, and pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours on day 8 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

DELAYED INTENSIFICATION 1 PART 2: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD on days 36-63, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 36, thioguanine PO on days 36-49, cytarabine IV over 1-30 minutes or SC on days 38-41 and 45-48, and methotrexate IT on days 38 and 45in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

INTERIM MAINTENANCE: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-28, methotrexate PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, and mercaptopurine PO on days 1-28 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

DELAYED INTENSIFICATION 2 PART 1: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-35, methotrexate IT on day 1, dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-7 and 15-21, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute, dexrazoxane hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes, and doxorubicin IV over 3-15 minutes on days 8, 15, 22, and 29, and pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours on day 8 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

DELAYED INTENSIFICATION 2 PART 2: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD on days 36-49, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 36, thioguanine PO on days 36-49, cytarabine IV over 1-30 minutes or SC on days 36-39 and 43-46, and methotrexate IT on days 36 and 43 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-84, methotrexate PO once weekly (QW) and IT on days 1 and 43 of cycles 1, 2, and 3, and mercaptopurine PO on days 1-84. Cycles with imatinib mesylate and mercaptopurine repeat every 84 days for up to 104 weeks from the start of Induction IA in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

ARM B:

INTERIM MAINTENANCE: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-63, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute and high dose methotrexate IV over 24 hours on days 1, 15, 29, and 43, leucovorin calcium or levoleucovorin PO or IV on days 3-4, 17-18, 31-32, and 45-46, mercaptopurine PO on days 1-56, and methotrexate IT on days 1 and 29 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

DELAYED INTENSIFICATION PART 1: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-28, methotrexate IT on day 1, dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-7 and 15-21, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute, dexrazoxane hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes, and doxorubicin IV over 3-15 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15, and pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours or IM on day 4 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

DELAYED INTENSIFICATION PART 2: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD on days 29-56, cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 29, thioguanine PO on days 29-42, cytarabine IV over 1-30 minutes or SC on days 29-32 and 36-39, methotrexate IT on days 29 and 36, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 43 and 50, and pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours on day 43 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

INTERIM MAINTENANCE WITH CAPIZZI METHOTREXATE: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-56, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute and methotrexate IV over 2-15 minutes on days 1, 11, 21, 31, and 41, methotrexate IT on days 1 and 31, and pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol IV over 1-2 hours on days 2 and 23 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID on days 1-84, vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1, 29, and 57, prednisolone PO BID (or methylprednisolone IV for cycle 1 and 2) on days 1-5, 29-33, and 57-61, mercaptopurine PO on days 1-84, methotrexate PO QW, and methotrexate IT on day 1 (and day 29 for cycle 1 and 2). Cycles repeat every 84 days for up to 104 weeks from the start of Induction IA in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

ARM C:

CONSOLIDATION BLOCK 1: Patients receive imatinib mesylate, methotrexate, cytarabine, therapeutic hydrocortisone, high dose methotrexate, vincristine sulfate, dexamethasone, leucovorin calcium or levoleucovorin, high dose cytarabine, and pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol as in Arm A Consolidation Block 1, and filgrastim SC or IV on day 7 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION BLOCK 2: Patients receive imatinib mesylate, methotrexate, cytarabine, therapeutic hydrocortisone, high dose methotrexate, dexamethasone, vincristine sulfate, ifosfamide, leucovorin calcium or levoleucovorin, dexrazoxane hydrochloride, daunorubicin hydrochloride, pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol, and filgrastim as Arm A Consolidation Block 2 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION BLOCK 3: Patients receive imatinib mesylate, dexamethasone, etoposide, methotrexate, cytarabine, therapeutic hydrocortisone, pegaspargase or calaspargase pegol, and filgrastim as in Arm A Consolidation Block 3, and high dose cytarabine IV over 3 hours on days 1-2 in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

HSCT: Patients undergo HSCT on day 0. Patients who do not proceed to HSCT receive Delayed Intensification 1, Interim Maintenance, Delayed Intensification 2, and Maintenance as in Arm A.

POST-HSCT: Patients receive imatinib mesylate PO QD or BID starting on days 56-365 in the in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every year for 3 years.