Navigation Interventions to Improve Cascade Genetic Testing Among Relatives of Patients With Hereditary Cancer Syndromes
This clinical trial tests whether various web-based tools can help improve communication about hereditary cancer risk in families and decrease barriers to genetic testing for relatives of patients with hereditary cancer syndromes. Between 5% and 10% of all cancers are caused by genetic changes that are hereditary, which means that they run in families. Some kinds of cancer or certain cancers diagnosed in biological relatives may mean patients are more likely to have a genetic change. Once a genetic change is identified in a family, other biological relatives can choose to undergo testing themselves to better understand their cancer risk. The uptake of genetic testing in other biological relatives once a genetic condition is identified is about 20% to 30%. The Cascade Genetic Testing Platform is a virtual tool that seeks to overcome barriers related to logistics of family communication and improve dissemination of genetic testing information which is clinically actionable for individuals at highest risk for cancer. Using the Cascade Genetic Testing Platform may improve ways to share information about hereditary risk with biological relatives.
Hereditary Malignant Neoplasm|Hereditary Neoplastic Syndrome
OTHER: Communication Intervention|OTHER: Health Promotion and Education|OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
Percentage of probands that utilize the invitation tool, Will be defined as inviting at least 1 eligible at-risk relative. Will be assessed using descriptive statistics. Will be tabulated and summarized. Continuous variables will be summarized by mean, median, and standard deviation; histograms and boxplots will be used to further assess distributional characteristics of these variables. Categorical variables will be tabulated with frequencies and percentages. Will be estimated and presented along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 1 year|Percentage of invited relatives that engage, Will be defined as enrolling in the study and accessing the informational content (letter and/or virtual genetics navigator) at least 1 time. Will be assessed using descriptive statistics. Will be tabulated and summarized. Continuous variables will be summarized by mean, median, and standard deviation; histograms and boxplots will be used to further assess distributional characteristics of these variables. Categorical variables will be tabulated with frequencies and percentages. Will be estimated and presented along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 1 year
Extent of utilization of the invitation portal by probands, Will be measured by the number of relatives invited out of the estimated number of eligible at-risk relatives (e.g. blood-related, have not completed genetic testing, living, 18 years or older). Will be calculated based on previously collected family records as reviewed by a genetic counselor, in conjunction with any updated information received from participants. Will be assessed using descriptive statistics. Will be tabulated and summarized. Continuous variables will be summarized by mean, median, and standard deviation; histograms and boxplots will be used to further assess distributional characteristics of these variables. Categorical variables will be tabulated with frequencies and percentages. Will be estimated and presented along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 1 year|Percentage of relatives invited who subsequently enroll in the study, Will be assessed using descriptive statistics. Will be tabulated and summarized. Continuous variables will be summarized by mean, median, and standard deviation; histograms and boxplots will be used to further assess distributional characteristics of these variables. Categorical variables will be tabulated with frequencies and percentages. Will be estimated and presented along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 1 year|Percentage of relative participants who have either scheduled or completed genetic testing, Will be assessed using descriptive statistics. Will be tabulated and summarized. Continuous variables will be summarized by mean, median, and standard deviation; histograms and boxplots will be used to further assess distributional characteristics of these variables. Categorical variables will be tabulated with frequencies and percentages. Will be estimated and presented along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 3 months
03JUN2025- Amendment was approved that shorten the study timeline from 12 to 6 months. We believe this is sufficient to capture our primary outcome (participation) and a shorter timeline may keep participants more engaged.