Pilot Study for Detection of PSMA-Low CRPC-NE Tumors With Fluciclovine PET/CT
This research study is studying a positron emission tomography (PET) agent called 18F-fluciclovine to evaluate how well 18F-fluciclovine-PET scans determine the extent of advanced prostate cancer that either has low prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) expression or has neuroendocrine features.

The name of the study interventions are:

* 18F-fluciclovine-PET/CT scan
* Two research blood collections
Advanced Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
DRUG: 18F-fluciclovine|DEVICE: PET/CT
Fluciclovine and PSMA Uptake in PSMA Positive Tumors, Number of 18F-fluciclovine positive lesions in PSMA-positive tumors on PET

Number of fluciclovine positive tumors that are PSMA-negative, Up to 6 months|Fluciclovine and PSMA Uptake in PSMA Negative Tumors, Number of 18F-fluciclovine positive lesions in PSMA-negative tumors on PET, up to 6 months
This research study is a pilot study, which is the first-time investigators are examining this study imaging agent, 18F-fluciclovine, for use in PSMA-low castration resistant and neuroendocrine prostate cancer detection.

18F-fluciclovine is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It is approved for imaging the early stages of prostate cancer. It is not approved for imaging PSMA-low castration resistant or neuroendocrine prostate cancer. 18F-fluciclovine is a radiotracer for PET imaging that targets amino-acid receptors. Some information shows that both PSMA-low and neuroendocrine prostate tumors use amino acids for energy. The purpose of this study to determine if PSMA-low and neuroendocrine prostate cancer can be seen with 18F-fluciclovine-PET/CT. Secondary aims are better understanding of the role of amino acids and PSMA in PSMA low and neuroendocrine prostate cancer and how imaging tests can be used together to optimize treatments for PSMA-low and neuroendocrine prostate cancer.

Participants will receive a PSMA-PET/CT as part standard of care and as part of the study receive 18F-fluciclovine-PET/CT scan along with two research blood collections.

Blue Earth Diagnostics Inc. is supporting this research study by providing the 18Ffluciclovine and funding for the research study.