Trifluridine/Tipiracil and Irinotecan for the Treatment of Advanced Refractory Biliary Tract Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well trifluridine/tipiracil and irinotecan work in treating patients with biliary tract cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced) and has not responded to treatment (refractory). Trifluridine/tipiracil and irinotecan may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Advanced Bile Duct Carcinoma|Advanced Gallbladder Carcinoma|Refractory Bile Duct Carcinoma|Refractory Gallbladder Carcinoma|Stage III Distal Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Intrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Distal Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Intrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Distal Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Intrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Distal Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Intrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Trifluridine and Tipiracil Hydrochloride
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Will be defined as the proportion of evaluable patients who are progression-free (stable disease, partial response, complete response) at 16 weeks and assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Clopper and Pearson., Up to 16 weeks
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Will be defined as the proportion of patients who experience either a partial response or complete response as their best response. ORR will be reported descriptively and a 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 20 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Will be defined as the proportion of patients who experience a partial response, complete response, or have stable disease as their best response. DCR will be reported descriptively and a 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 20 months|PFS, Will be determined based on RECIST v 1.1. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median PFS and 95% confidence interval will be reported. Patients will be censored at the last disease assessment date., From study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 20 months|Overall Survival (OS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median OS and 95% confidence interval will be reported. Patients will be censored at the date patient was last known to be alive., From study entry to death from any cause, assessed up to 20 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event by patient will be summarized by frequencies and percentages using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 28 days
Circulating Tumor Cells (CTCs) or Cell-free Deoxyribonucleic Acid (cfDNA) at Baseline, Will determine if CTCs or cfDNA at baseline will correlate with prognosis or response to therapy., Baseline|Change in CTCs or cfDNA, Will determine if change in CTCs or cfDNA will correlate with efficacy endpoints., Baseline up to 20 months|Correlation of Response, Will determine if drug response from a parallel ex vivo trial using patient-derived tumor organoid correlates with clinical response to trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride (trifluridine/tipiracil) plus irinotecan hydrochloride (irinotecan)., Up to 20 months|Prediction of Clinical Benefit by Thymidine Kinase 1 (TK1), Will evaluate the role of TK1 in predicting the clinical benefit of trifluridine/tipiracil plus irinotecan and discover potential mechanisms of resistance using patient-derived tumor organoid and pre-treatment biopsy specimen., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the efficacy of trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride (trifluridine/tipiracil) in combination with irinotecan hydrochloride (irinotecan) in patients with refractory biliary tract cancers using progression-free survival (PFS) at 16 weeks.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of trifluridine/tipiracil in combination with irinotecan in patients with refractory biliary tract cancers through adverse event monitoring.

II. Further explore the efficacy of trifluridine/tipiracil in combination with irinotecan in patients with refractory biliary tract cancers by overall response rates (ORR), disease control rates (DCR), and overall survival (OS).

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH:

I. To determine if the number of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) or the level of cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) at baseline is prognostic or predictive to the response to therapy.

II. To determine if changes in CTCs or cfDNA correlate with efficacy endpoints. III. To determine if drug response from a parallel ex vivo trial using patient-derived tumor organoid correlates with clinical response to trifluridine/tipiracil plus irinotecan.

IV. To evaluate the role of thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) in predicting the clinical benefit of trifluridine/tipiracil plus irinotecan and discover potential mechanisms of resistance using patient-derived tumor organoid and pre-treatment biopsy specimen.

EXPLORATORY RESEARCH:

I. To evaluate patients who received prior treatment with fluorouracil (5-FU) independently from the entire population in the following areas: PFS, safety and tolerability, ORR, DCR, and OS.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trifluridine and tipiracil hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5 and irinotecan hydrochloride (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months for up to 2 years after study registration.