Darxicilib Combined With Abiraterone Acetate Tablets (II) for the Treatment of Advanced Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer.
This study is a single-arm, multicenter, phase II exploratory trial. The purpose is to explore the efficacy and safety of Darxicilib in combination with Abiraterone Acetate for the treatment of subjects with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer.The main questions it aims to answer are:

·PSA50 response rate at the end of week 12

Participants will:

* Darxicilib: 125mg per tablet, oral administration, once daily for 21 consecutive days followed by a 7-day break.
* Abiraterone Acetate tablets (II): 300mg per dose, oral administration, once daily for a 28-day cycle.
* Prednisone: 5mg per tablet, oral administration, twice daily.
The Efficacy of Abiraterone Acetate Combined With Dalpicilib in the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Dalpicilib|DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate (II)|DRUG: Androgen Deprivation Therapy|DRUG: Prednisone
12 Week PSA 50, Response rate of PSA 50 at the end of 12 weeks., 12 weeks
Radiographic Progression-Free Survival, The time from randomization until the occurrence of radiographic progression or death from any cause., 3 years|Adverse event, During the trial, adverse events are assessed based on laboratory and clinical examinations., 3 years|overall survival, The time from the start of the study or the initiation of treatment for the patient, to the time of death from any cause., 3 years|PSA 50, PSA 50 is defined as the percentage of patients experiencing a reduction in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels by at least 50% from their baseline values after treatment., 3 years|PSA 90, PSA 90 is defined as the percentage of patients experiencing a reduction in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels by at least 90% from their baseline values after treatment., 3 years
1. This research constitutes a phase II, single-arm, multicenter exploratory study aimed at assessing the therapeutic efficacy and safety profile of the combination therapy involving Darxicilib and Abiraterone Acetate (II) in patients diagnosed with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). The enrollment target is set at 43 participants who meet the eligibility criteria for the efficacy assessment phase of the trial.
2. (1)Main Research Objective To evaluate the efficacy of the treatment modality of Darxicilib in combination with Abiraterone Acetate (II) in patients with mCRPC (metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer).

(2)Secondary Research Objectives

1. To assess the efficacy of the combination therapy in target mCRPC subjects through the time to PSA progression, PSA response rate at 12 weeks (PSA50, PSA90, and PSA ≤ 0.2 ng/ml), disease-free survival (PFS) rates at 6 and 12 months, overall survival (OS), and duration of response (DOR);
2. To evaluate the safety of the combination therapy for target mCRPC by assessing the incidence of adverse events, time to pain progression, and time to symptom progression.

(3)Exploratory Research Objective Quality of life.