GVHD Prophylaxis With Post-transplantation Bendamustine in Refractory Leukemia
Several groups have demonstrated very low incidence of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) with post-transplantation cyclophosphamide (PTCy) in haploidentical, unrelated and related allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT). Nonetheless for majority of the grafts, except for 10/10 HLA-matched bone marrow, with this type of prophylaxis require concomitant administration of calcineurin inhibitors±MMF, which delays immune reconstitution and development of graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect. So, despite reduction of transplant-related mortality, use of PTCy doesn't lead to the reduction of relapse incidence. This is particularly important for relapsed or refractory acute leukemia patients, where, despite all efforts to intensify conditioning regimens, relapses after SCT occur in more than 50% of patients, and long-term survival rarely exceeds 10-20%. In preclinical model of haploidentical SCT the substitution of post-transplantation cyclophosphamide with bendamustine, led to comparable GVHD control, but significantly augmented GVL effect. To test this hypothesis and improve the outcome of allogeneic SCT in refractory acute leukemia patients we initiated a pilot trial with high-dose post-transplantation bendamustine for GVHD prophylaxis. The selection of doses is based on the previous dose-escalation studies. Additional immunosuppression could be added for mismatched grafts.
Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Mixed-Lineage Acute Leukemias
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic stem cell transplantation|DRUG: Fludarabine monophosphate|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Bendamustine
Engraftment rate, Engraftment is defined as the first of 3 consecutive days with an ANC\>500 per μl and WBC\>1000 per μl. Platelet engraftment is not mandatory for the endpoint., 60 days
Relapse rate analysis, 365 days|Non-relapse mortality analysis, 365 days|Incidence of acute GVHD, grades II-IV, 180 days|Incidence of chronic GVHD, moderate and severe (NIH criteria), 365 days|Overall survival analysis, 365 days|Event-free survival analysis, 365 days|Toxicity (NCI CTCAE 4.03), Toxicity parameters based on NCI CTCAE 4.03 grades: hepatotoxicity (liver function tests), nephrotoxicity (creatinine), neurotoxicity (attending physician assessment), mucositis (attending physician assessment), hemorrhagic cystitis (attending physician assessment), cardiotoxicity (ECG, echocardiography). Additional toxicity parameters: incidence and severity of veno-occlusive disease, incidence of transplant-associated microangiopathy, 100 days|Infectious complications, including analysis of severe bacterial, fungal and viral infections incidence, 100 days
Several groups have demonstrated very low incidence of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) with post-transplantation cyclophosphamide (PTCy) in haploidentical, unrelated and related allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT). Nonetheless for majority of the grafts, except for 10/10 HLA-matched bone marrow, with this type of prophylaxis require concomitant administration of calcineurin inhibitors±MMF, which delays immune reconstitution and development of graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect. So, despite reduction of transplant-related mortality, use of PTCy doesn't lead to the reduction of relapse incidence. This is particularly important for relapsed or refractory acute leukemia patients, where, despite all efforts to intensify conditioning regimens, relapses after SCT occur in more than 50% of patients, and long-term survival rarely exceeds 10-20%. In preclinical model of haploidentical SCT the substitution of post-transplantation cyclophosphamide with bendamustine, led to comparable GVHD control, but significantly augmented GVL effect. To test this hypothesis and improve the outcome of allogeneic SCT in refractory acute leukemia patients we initiated a pilot trial with high-dose post-transplantation bendamustine for GVHD prophylaxis. The selection of doses is based on the previous dose-escalation studies. Additional immunosuppression could be added for mismatched grafts.