Anorectal Application of 5% Lidocaine Cream Reduces Pain Prior to Periprostatic Nerve Block During Transrectal Ultrasound Guided Biopsy
Transrectal ultrasound guided prostate biopsy is performed with a periprostatic nerve block to the neurovascular bundle bilaterally. This does not reduce the pain due to probe insertion and manipulation prior to nerve blockage.

Our study goal is to assess whether topical analgesia would reduce pain during the early stages of the procedure.
Pain|Prostate Cancer|Rectal/Anal
PROCEDURE: Trans rectal ultrasound guided prostate biopsy|PROCEDURE: Trans rectal ultrasound|PROCEDURE: Prostate biopsy|PROCEDURE: Periprostatic nerve block
Pain level before probe insertion, Self reported by the patient using a 0-10 visual analogue scale. 0 being no pain at all, 10 being worst pain imaginable., Before transrectal ultrasound probe insertion|Pain level at TRUS probe insertion, Self reported by the patient using a 0-10 visual analogue scale. 0 being no pain at all, 10 being worst pain imaginable., During transrectal ultrasound probe insertion into the rectum (defined as beginning of procedure)|Pain level during TRUS probe manipulation in the rectum, Self reported by the patient using a 0-10 visual analogue scale. 0 being no pain at all, 10 being worst pain imaginable., During transrectal ultrasound probe manipulation in the rectum (estimated at 0-2 minutes length)|Pain level during periprostatic nerve block, Self reported by the patient using a 0-10 visual analogue scale. 0 being no pain at all, 10 being worst pain imaginable., During periprostatic nerve block (rectal wall puncture with needle, estimated at 2-3 minutes after beginning of procedure)|Pain level during biopsy collection, Self reported by the patient using a 0-10 visual analogue scale. 0 being no pain at all, 10 being worst pain imaginable., During biopsy collection using an 18-gauge needle (estimated at 3-10 minutes from beginning of procedure)|Pain level at termination of procedure, Self reported by the patient using a 0-10 visual analogue scale. 0 being no pain at all, 10 being worst pain imaginable., At termination of procedure (total estimated length of procedure is 10 minutes).
Prospective, randomized controlled study. Patients signed an informed consent form. Exclusion criteria were Lidocaine allergy or pre-planned general anesthesia.

Patients were randomized into 6 groups: (1) nerve block with 5 ml 1% lidocaine for each neurovascular bundle + perianal topical application of 10 ml 5% lidocaine cream; (2) as in (1) plus application of 10 ml 5% lidocaine cream evenly on rectal walls. For each approach exposure times of 5, 10 and 20 minutes were allowed, all together 6 groups plus a control group of patients who received periprostatic nerve block only. A 0-10 Visual analogue scale (VAS) was filled by the patients at 5 time points: immediately after probe insertion, during probe manipulation and prostate assessment, immediately following neurovascular bundle nerve blockage, after prostate biopsies and a global pain estimation of the procedure.