Safety and Pharmacokinetics of Rising Doses of APO010 in Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma Patients Selected by DRP
Multicentre, open label, uncontrolled, phase I pharmacokinetic study, to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of APO010 administered intravenously on D1, D8 and D15 followed by a one-week drug rest, in patients with multiple myeloma for who have relapsed or are refractory to 2 (in high-risk patients 1) or more different prior therapies and who have Drug Response Predictor (DRP) for APO010 indicating a higher likelihood for response to APO010. The study will contain an extension phase where the recommended Dose will be tested on additional patients.
Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: APO010
Maximum Tolerated Dosage, To define the Maximum Tolerated Dosage of intravenous bolus administration of APO010, 1 Year|Recommended Dosage, To define the Recommended Dosage of intravenous bolus administration of APO010, 1 Year
Percentage (%) of patients with drug-related adverse events (adverse reactions), To define the safety profile of a weekly schedule of APO010, including Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.03, Physical examination, vital signs, concomitant medications and laboratory data. To define the safety profile of APO010 after chronic administration (beyond 3 consecutive administrations, i.e., two or more cycles) and to define local toxicity at the site of administration through observation of the area of infusion., 1 Year|The pharmacokinetic profile (AUC INF) for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, The PK variable that will be evaluated are Area Under the curve (AUC INF). Pharmacokinetic parameters will be measured for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, 1 Year|The pharmacokinetic profile (AUC last) for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, The PK variable that will be evaluated are Area Under the curve (AUC last). Pharmacokinetic parameters will be measured for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, 1 Year|The pharmacokinetic profile (AUC 0-12hr) for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, The PK variable that will be evaluated are Area Under the curve (AUC 0-12hr). Pharmacokinetic parameters will be measured for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, 1 Year|The Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax), for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, The PK variable that will be evaluated is Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax). Pharmacokinetic parameters will be measured for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, 1 Year|The Observed maximum (Tmax), for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, The PK variable that will be evaluated is, time of observed maximum (Tmax). Pharmacokinetic parameters will be measured for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, 1 Year|The Terminal half-life (T½), for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters will be calculated or estimated by using a model independent approach. The PK variable that will be evaluated is the terminal half-life (T½)). Pharmacokinetic parameters will be measured for APO010 at doses above 60 µg/m2, 1 Year|The HADA Antibody Response, Assays will be performed to detect the production of antibodies against APO010 (HADA) in the serum of treated patients. If antibodies are formed, their ability to neutralize the biological activity of APO010 in in vitro cytotoxicity assay will be measured., 1 Year|The Tumor Response, Using International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria, based on measurements in blood and urine and in case of disappearance of M-proteins with additional confirmatory bone-marrow investigation, the number of patients with either stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) will be measured., 1 Year
APO010 is a novel investigational antitumour agent. It is a recombinant form of human Fas ligand (FasL), a protein with the function of inducing programmed cell death (apoptosis). Preclinical studies indicate that multiple myeloma is sensitive for APO010. Estimation of DRP for APO010 in myeloma patients suggests that it may be possible to identify patients with high and low likelihood for response, and thereby allocate the predicted high likelihood patients to the treatment. Preclinical results indicate that, in comparison with other single agents, APO010 exercises superior anti-tumour effect by inducing apoptosis.

The study will include patients with multiple myeloma who have relapsed or are refractory to 2 (in high-risk patients 1) or more different prior therapies, including IMiDs and PI and who have Drug Response Predictor (DRP) for APO010 indicating a higher likelihood for response to APO010.

This study is a multicentre, open label, uncontrolled, phase I, dose escalation, pharmacokinetic study, to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of APO010 administered intravenously on D1, D8 and D15 followed by a one-week drug rest i.e. cycle duration is 4 weeks. The study will contain an extension phase where the Recommended Dose will be tested on additional patients.

The primary endpoint is determination of the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD)based upon first cycle drug-related dose-limiting toxicity and the recommended dose of APO010. Safety will be evaluated during the study and for 30 days after the last administration of study drug. Adverse events and laboratory studies will be graded according to NCI-CTCAE v. 4.03.

The proportion of patients with positive HADA assessment will be investigated and a description of any objective tumour response based on International Myeloma Working Group criteria and from changes in M-protein and iFLC.