Azacitidine and Entinostat Before Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well azacitidine and entinostat before chemotherapy works in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine, irinotecan hydrochloride, gemcitabine hydrochloride, docetaxel, and pemetrexed disodium, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Entinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving azacitidine and entinostat before chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Entinostat|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pemetrexed Disodium
Percentage of Patients Progression-free at 6 Months From the Time of Randomization, The final analysis will be by Fisher's Exact test, with percentage of patients who have not progressed as the outcome variable. Using Fisher's Exact test for analysis with 55 patients per treatment group will provide 88% power to detect an increase from 40% (chemotherapy alone) to 65% (epigenetic therapy followed by chemotherapy) in the number of patients who are progression free at six months., At 6 months
Overall Survival (OS), From the time of enrollment to trial until death, assessed up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival, From the time of randomization until radiologic or clinical progression is noted, assessed up to 2 years., up to 2 years
Genome-wide Techniques, Including Expression Array and Methylation Array, Expression array and methylation array will be compared to response., After 1 month of therapy|Predictive and Prognostic Value of the Previously Defined Epigenetic Signature, Comprised of Promoter Methylation Analysis of 4 Target Genes, After 1 month of therapy|Response to Therapy Compared to Genetic and Epigenetic Factors and Tested for Association, After 1 month of therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Percentage of patients progression-free at 6 months from time of randomization.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Progression-free survival (PFS). II. Overall survival (OS).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-6 and 8-10 and entinostat orally (PO) on days 3 and 10. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or progressive disease receive chemotherapy of the treating oncologist's choice comprising irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) on day 1, docetaxel IV on day 1, pemetrexed disodium IV on day 1, or gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive azacitidine PO on days 1-21 and entinostat PO on days 3 and 10. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or progressive disease receive chemotherapy of the treating oncologist's choice as in Arm A.

ARM C: Patients receive chemotherapy of the treating oncologist's choice as in Arm A.

After completion of treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 24 months and then yearly thereafter.