Bevacizumab for Treatment of Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis (RRP)
This phase I single center open labeled study is planned to assess the safety and tolerability of bevacizumab for treating patients with bilateral Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis (RRP). Approximately 20 patients will receive bevacizumab directly injected into the vocal folds. Patients who enroll in the protocol will be injected with bevacizumab in one vocal fold that represents the more diseased of the two folds. A sham injection with saline will be administered to the other vocal fold as the control. This therapy will be administered once every 6 ± 1 week for 6 months, with the same vocal fold selected for the initial treatment always getting the drug injection. The investigator will also treat lesions by laser photoangiolysis of both vocal folds using the 532 nm potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) laser.
Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis
DRUG: Avastin® (bevacizumab)|DRUG: Saline
The Primary Activity Variable Was the Recurrence of Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis (RRP) in Bevacizumab Treated and the Un-treated Vocal Fold in the Same Patient During and at the End of the 6-month Treatment Period., Prior to each treatment,the area of reappearance of disease was measured and the % change from baseline was calculated. The change was then added to the % change from the previous treatment to generate a cumulative total % change of reappearance of RRP from baseline. The additive nature of this parameter resulted in % greater than 100% if the area of vocal fold affected by the RRP increased over the baseline measurement., 6 months
This phase I single center open labeled study is planned to assess the safety and tolerability of bevacizumab for treating patients with bilateral Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis (RRP). Approximately 20 patients will receive bevacizumab directly injected into the vocal folds. Patients who enroll in the protocol will be injected with bevacizumab in one vocal fold that represents the more diseased of the two folds. A sham injection with saline will be administered to the other vocal fold as the control. This therapy will be administered once every 6 ± 1 week for 6 months, with the same vocal fold selected for the initial treatment always getting the drug injection. The investigator will also treat lesions by laser photoangiolysis of both vocal folds using the 532 nm potassium-titanyl-phosphate (KTP) laser.