BYL719 and Nab-Paclitaxel in Locally Recurrent or Metastatic HER-2 Negative Breast Cancer
Investigate the use of BYL719 (alpelisib) as combination therapy with Nab-Paclitaxel in locally recurrent or metastatic HER-2 negative breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: BYL-719 (alpelisib)|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Phase I: Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of BYL-719 (Alpelisib) + Nab-paclitaxel to be Used in Combination to Treat Advanced HER2-negative Breast Cancer, Phase I was a 3+3 dose escalation design (three dose levels of alpelisib: 250mg, 300mg, and 350mg orally once daily, continuous dosing) with dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) assessed during the first treatment cycle. If two or more of the six patients experienced a dose-limiting toxicity, dosing escalation would cease and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) would be reached. RP2D was the next lower dose at which \<1/6 subjects experienced a DLT., 12 months|Phase II: Overall Response Rate (ORR) of Subjects Treated at the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D), ORR includes complete response (CR) plus partial response (PR). As evaluated per RECIST version 1.1., 24 months
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) at 16 Weeks of Study Treatment, CBR includes complete response (CR), partial response (PR), plus stable disease (SD) ≥16 weeks. As evaluated per RECIST version 1.1., 16 weeks|Pharmacokinetics of BYL-719 (Alpelisib) When Administered With Nab-paclitaxel, Area under the curve (AUC): sampling pre-dose and 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, 6, and 8 hours post-alpelisib dose, In cycle 1 day 1, from prior to alpelisib dosing through 8 hours after alpelisib dosing|Pharmacokinetics of (Total) Nab-paclitaxel When Administered With BYL-719 (Alpelisib), Area under the curve (AUC): sampling pre-dose and 1.5, 2, 2.5, 3, 3.5, 4, and 6 hours post-alpelisib dose, In cycle 1 day 1, from prior to alpelisib dosing through 8 hours after alpelisib dosing|Progression-free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS), PFS was defined as the time in months from the date of enrollment to the date of progression or death, whichever was earlier. OS was defined as the time in months from the date of enrollment to death as a result of any cause. Survival curves were assessed by the Kaplan-Meier method., 36 months
Correlation of PIK3CA Mutation With Clinical Benefit Rate, Comparison of clinical benefit rate between participants with and without PIK3CA mutation in tumor tissue and/or circulating tumor DNA. Clinical benefit rate includes complete response (CR), partial response (PR), plus stable disease (SD) ≥16 weeks, as evaluated per RECIST version 1.1. Tumor DNA was isolated from archived formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissue (primary or metastatic site) and subjected to next-generation sequencing for assessment of PIK3CA mutation using ONCOReveal Multi-Cancer Panel (Pillar Biosciences). Circulating tumor DNA was isolated from pre-treatment plasma samples and subjected to next-generation sequencing for assessment of PIK3CA mutation using FoundationOne CDx testing or ONCOReveal Multi-Cancer Panel., 24 months
Breast cancer is the most common cancer and the second leading cause of cancer related death in American women. Despite recent improvement in the treatment of breast cancer, 40,000 women still die each year in the US as a result of breast cancer. Chemotherapy (usually consisting of sequential single agent) remains the backbone of treatment for patients with HER-2 negative metastatic breast cancer. A majority of patients show an initial response to treatment, but all eventually show disease progression.

The purpose of this study is to determine the highest dose of BYL719 (alpelisib) combined with Nab-Paclitaxel that results in no serious side effects. The safety and effectiveness of BYL719 combined with Nab-Paclitaxel to treat patients with HER-2 negative metastatic breast cancer will be assessed, along with the determination of how long this drug combination will keep the disease from getting worse.

The study will be done in two parts:

Part 1 will determine the highest dose of BYL719 that is safe and tolerable to take in combination with Nab-Paclitaxel. Part 1 will be completed before Part 2 begins.

Part 2 will investigate whether taking BYL719 (at the dose determined in Part 1) + Nab-Paclitaxel is safe and effective for patients with HER-2 negative metastatic breast cancer.