Donor Peripheral Stem Cell Transplant, Fludarabine, and Busulfan in Treating Patients With Hematologic Cancers
Giving chemotherapy drugs, such as fludarabine and busulfan, before a donor peripheral stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It also stops the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. The donated stem cells may replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining cancer cells (graft-versus-tumor effect). Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can also make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil before and after the transplant may stop this from happening.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects of giving donor peripheral stem cell transplant together with fludarabine and busulfan and to see how well it works in treating patients with hematologic cancers.
Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: busulfan|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|PROCEDURE: allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Number of Patients With Day 100 Transplant-related Mortality, Patients were followed for death and whether or not that death was attributed to the day 100 transplant via physician assessment for 24 months after day 100 transplant., 24 months after day 100 transplant
Number of Patients Without Progression After Day 100 Transplant, All patients will be followed for progression for 24 months after their day 100 transplant., 24 months after day 100 transplant|Number of Patients Alive 24 Months Post Day 100 Transplant, Patients will be followed for survival for 24 months post day 100 transplant., 24 months post day 100 transplant
OUTLINE:

* Conditioning regimen: Patients receive busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6 and -5 and fludarabine phosphate IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2.
* Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSC): Patients undergo allogeneic PBSC on day 0.
* Immunosuppressive therapy/graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients achieve100% donor T-cell chimerism on day 30 without disease recurrence, and cyclosporine A (CSA) IV continuously over 24 hours or orally every 12 hours on days -1 to 60 followed by a taper until day 100 and oral mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) once every 12 hours on days 1-40, in the absence of ≥ grade 2 GVHD.

Patients with recurrent disease or \< 100% donor T-cell chimerism (on day 30) undergo a 12-day CSA and MMF taper followed by escalating doses of previously collected donor leukocyte infusion every 4 weeks until 100% donor T-cell chimerism or disease regression, in the absence of ≥ grade 2 GVHD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.