TP-0903 for the Treatment of FLT3 Mutated Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase IB/II trial studies the best dose of TP-0903 and how well it works when given alone or with azacitidine in treating patients with FLT3 gene mutated acute myeloid leukemia. TP-0903 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving TP-0903 alone or with azacitidine may kill more cancer cells.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Therapy-Related Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Dubermatinib
Maximum tolerated dose of dubermatinib (TP-0903), Determine a tolerable dose of TP-0903 monotherapy for relapsed/refractory patients with FLT3 AML., Up to 28 days|Composite complete response (CR) rate, Will calculate the composite CR rate (complete remission \[CR\]/complete remission with incomplete count recovery \[CRh) defined according to the 2017 European LeukemiaNet Acute Myeloid Leukemia recommendation., Up to 5 years post registration|Composite CR rate with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) rate, Will calculate the composite CR rate (CR/CRh), defined according to the International Working Group criteria and assessed at the end of induction., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Disease-free survival, Will be summarized by the Kaplan-Meier method to determine disease-free survival for patients achieving complete response CR/CRh in each cohort of the study., From the date of first CR/CRh until the first date of relapse/progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years post registration|The Number of patients who proceed to transplant, The number of patients who got to transplant, Up to 5 years post registration|Overall survival, Will be summarized by the Kaplan-Meier method., From the treatment start date until the date of death from any cause or date last known alive, assessed up to 5 years post registration|Maximum grade of each type of adverse event, Will be recorded for each patient and summarized., Up to 5 years post registration|Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, Treatment-related adverse events, defined as possibly, probably or definitely related to study treatment per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 will be summarized separately., Up to 5 years post registration|Tolerability of TP-0903, Reasons for treatment discontinuation and number of TP-0903 cycles received will be summarized and used to assess tolerability., Up to 5 years post registration
Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) pharmacokinetics (PK), Initial analysis of plasma PK data will include standard compartmental and noncompartmental methods. Descriptive statistics including means, standard deviations, and frequencies will be computed for all variables. Relationships between continuous variables will be performed using standard linear correlation and linear regression. Relationships between PK parameters such as maximum concentration with response will be performed using standard t-tests or Wilcoxon rank sum tests and illustrated using boxplots or other graphical displays., Up to 5 years post registration|Area under the plasma concentration (AUC) pharmacokinetics (PK), Initial analysis of plasma PK data will include standard compartmental and noncompartmental methods. Descriptive statistics including means, standard deviations, and frequencies will be computed for all variables. Relationships between continuous variables will be performed using standard linear correlation and linear regression. Relationships between PK parameters such as area under curve with response will be performed using standard t-tests or Wilcoxon rank sum tests and illustrated using boxplots or other graphical displays., Up to 5 years post registration|Changes in cytokines/chemokines, Differences in cytokines/chemokines will be evaluated using paired t-tests or Wilcoxon signed rank tests. Values will be log transformed as appropriate to reflect biologic plausibility. Cytokines/chemokines to be measured include: AXL, GAS6, FLT3 ligand, GM-CSF, IL-6, IL-8, RANTES, MIP-1α, MCP-1, sCD40L, EGF, VEGF, Up to 5 years post registration|Effect of TP-0903 on inhibition of phospho-protein expression Effect of TP-0903 on inhibition of phospho-protein expression Effect of TP-0903 on inhibition of phospho-protein expression Impact of TP-0903 on kinase signaling, Percent inhibition of phospho-protein expression in AML cells. Phospho-proteins to be measured include: phospho-FLT3, phospho-STAT5, phospho-AURKA/B, phosho-AXL, Up to 5 years post registration|Patterns of sensitivity and resistance, Mutational status in AML cells will be determined in samples at baseline and during treatment. Mutations in genes with single nucleotide changes and indels at variant allele frequency (VAF) \>0.1 will be reported. Mutations with decreasing VAF represent sensitivity, and increasing VAF represent resistance., Up to 5 years post registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine a tolerable dose of dubermatinib (TP-0903) monotherapy for relapsed/refractory patients with FLT3 acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of TP-0903 with azacitidine in untreated unfit patients with FLT3 AML.

III. To determine the complete remission (CR) or complete remission with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) rate following induction therapy with TP-0903 in relapsed/refractory patients or TP-0903 with azacitidine therapy in untreated unfit patients with FLT3 AML.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity profile of TP-0903 as a single agent and in combination with or azacitidine.

II. To determine disease-free survival for patients achieving CR/CRh in each cohort.

III. To determine overall survival for patients in each cohort. IV. To determine the proportion of patients who go to transplant.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To conduct pharmacokinetic studies of TP-0903 alone and in combination with azacitidine.

II. To examine changes in circulating AXL, Gas6, FLT3 ligand, and other cytokines/chemokines by TP-0903.

III. To determine the impact of TP-0903 on the inhibition of kinase signaling (AXL, FLT3, STAT5, AURKA), and metabolomics in AML cells.

IV. To determine differentially expressed genes in bone marrow stromal cells and AML cells upon TP-0903 treatment.

V. To examine sensitivity and resistance patterns associated with TP-0903 by genomic, epigenomic, and transcriptomic profiling.

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of dubermatinib followed by a phase II study.

(FLT3 AML WITH RELAPSED/REFRACTORY DISEASE):

INDUCTION: Patients receive dubermatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients with clinical or hematologic response and not transplant eligible may continue dubermatinib until loss of response/clinical benefit. Patients with clinical or hematologic response and transplant eligible may continue dubermatinib until one week prior to admission.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up followed every 3 months for up to 2 years from registration and then every 6 months for up to 5 years from registration.