Immune Profile and Prognosis of Malignant Liver Tumors With Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) Therapy
Clearing potential intrahepatic metastasis to prevent early recurrence after liver cancer treatment, there are no effective interventions so far. For secondary metastatic cancer, only the lesions visible under ultrasound can be used, one by one for local ablation and chemotherapy, but people may develop new tumor lesions. Therefore, the treatment of potential tumors and recurrent tumors after ablation is a very important clinical issue.
Liver Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: immunotherapy with Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Radiofrequency Ablation
Analysis of the number of CD8+ T, Analysis of the number of CD8+ T Using PBMC to analyze the number of CD8+ T that is NK, NKT, DC, and Monocyte. Four-time blood draws - 15 ml/each. Week 0- the data of CD8+T before RFA. Week 1- the data of CD8+T after RFA. Week 3- the data of CD8+T after participators received the vaccine which is Nivolumab 200mg in Week 2.

Week 6- the data of CD8+T

Compare with Week 0 and Week 1 data for analysis the difference of the ability of the immune system.

Compare with Week 1 and Week 3 data, if week 3 data is higher than week 1, it means that immunotherapy with Nivolumab has effects to strengthen the immune system.

Compare with Week 3 and Week 6 for analysis the effects of immunotherapy with Nivolumab have continued or not.

Moreover, analyzed the difference in the immune system between participators who received the vaccine and no received vaccine from week 3 to week 6., 6 weeks
Clearing potential intrahepatic metastasis to prevent early recurrence after liver cancer treatment, there are no effective interventions so far. For secondary metastatic cancer, only the lesions visible under ultrasound can be used, one by one for local ablation and chemotherapy, but people may develop new tumor lesions. Therefore, the treatment of potential tumors and recurrent tumors after ablation is a very important clinical issue. Therefore, this study will include primary liver cancer, as well as secondary metastatic malignant liver cancer, such as colorectal cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, and other cancers with a high incidence in Chinese patients, and detection of immune cells by surgery, and through various biomarkers to explore its mechanism and efficacy.