Safety and Efficacy of Amlotinib in the Treatment of Recurrent Craniopharyngioma
Primary Aim:

To assess the objective remission rate (ORR) of patients with recurrent craniopharyngiomas treated with amrlotinib .

Secondary Aims:

1. To assess progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with recurrent craniopharyngiomas treated with amrlotinib.
2. To analyze the disease control rate (DCR) of the Anrotinib treatment regimen in patients with recurrent craniopharyngiomas, including the proportion of patients in complete remission, partial remission and stable disease.
3. Monitor and evaluate the safety of amrutinib, especially the occurrence of drug-related adverse events (AEs) .
Craniopharyngiomas
DRUG: Anlotinib
Measurement of tumor volume on imaging (MRI), Measurement of tumor volume on imaging (MRI): A\*B\*C/2 (A,B,C are the maximum length, width, and height of the tumor, respectively), Through study completion, an average of 1 year
This study is a single-center, open-label, single-arm clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of amlotinib in the treatment of recurrent craniopharyngioma. Primary endpoints include progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and objective remission rate (ORR), with assessment of treatment-related adverse events and quality of life.

Analysis Set:

Full Analysis Set (FAS): includes all patients who are randomized into the study, have received at least received at least one dose of study drug and have measurable baseline tumors.FAS will be used for efficacy FAS will be used for efficacy analysis. Per-Protocol Set (PPS): In the FAS, patients with at least one post-dose tumor imaging evaluation and a compliant tumor.

PPS: In the FAS, patients with at least one post-dose tumor imaging assessment, good compliance, and no significant violations or deviations from the trial protocol.

PPS will be used for secondary efficacy analysis. Safety Set (SS): Includes all patients who have received at least one dose of drug therapy and have completed at least one safety assessment.

SS will be used for safety analysis.

Sample size determination:

This is an experimental clinical study with the primary objective of assessing the safety and preliminary efficacy of the drug.

The sample size was designed to be relatively small due to resource constraints and the nature of experimental clinical studies. Based on the literature references and study design, we expected to enroll approximately 57 subjects.

Statistical analysis All statistical analyses will be performed using SAS 9.2 statistical analysis software. Separate independent efficacy and safety analyses will be performed, and no control will be established.

efficacy and safety analyses will be performed separately, with no control group and no between-group comparisons.ORR and DCR will be described using frequency and percentage, PFS and OS will be described using frequency and percentage.

ORR and DCR were described using frequency and percentage, PFS and OS were estimated by Kaplan-Meier method for survival, and All treatment-related adverse events were recorded and analyzed according to CTCAE 5.0 criteria.