Sputum Cytometry Analysis in Lung Cancer Screening After Professional Asbestos Exposure
Workers exposed to asbestos are at high risk of lung cancer. Medical follow-up of this population relies on repeated CT-scans which are more accurate for detection of peripheral lesions, and expose to X-rays and to risk of false-positives. Analysis of sputum using automate cytometry may be of interest in this population, alone or in combination with CT-scan.

An ancillary study will evaluate the interest of blood predictive biomarkers.
Lung Neoplasms
OTHER: low-dose CT-scan AND induced sputum sample AND blood test
Risk of false positive, Ratio of false positives (RFP) for detection of lung cancer in reference to conventional cytology analysis of sputum, within 3 months|detection of lung cancer, Ratio of sensitivities for detection of lung cancer in reference to conventionnal cytology analysis of sputum, within 3 months
Sensitivity for lung cancer detection compared with CT-scan, Ratio of sensitivity (RSN) for lung cancer detection in reference with CT scan.

Interest of the combination "cytometry + CT-scan" compared with CT-scan alone will also be evaluated., within 3 months|Specificity for detection of lung cancer, Ratio of false positives (RFP) of automated cytometry analysis compared with CT-scan screening.

The combination "automated cytometry + CTscan" will also be evaluated compared with CT scan alone., within 3 months|Predictive Biomarkers, Frequency of specific biomarkers at the time of screening. Links between lung cancer during 5 years of prospective follow-up., Annually during a maximum of 5 years
Workers exposed to asbestos are at high risk of lung cancer. Medical follow-up of this population relies on repeated CT-scans which are more accurate for detection of peripheral lesions, and expose to X-rays and to risk of false-positives. Analysis of sputum using automate cytometry may be of interest in this population, alone or in combination with CT-scan.

An ancillary study will evaluate the interest of blood predictive biomarkers.