Safety and Immunogenicity of an Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) gp350-Ferritin Nanoparticle Vaccine in Healthy Adults With or Without EBV Infection
Background:

Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) causes most cases of infectious mononucleosis (mono). Up to 1 in 10 people who get mono can have fatigue that lasts more than 6 months. One out of 100 people can have severe complications. EBV is also associated with several types of cancer. Researchers want to test an EBV vaccine.

Objective:

To test the safety of and immune response to a new vaccine against EBV.

Eligibility:

Healthy adults ages 18-29

Design:

Participants will be screened with a medical history and physical exam. They will give a blood sample.

Screening tests will be repeated during the study.

Participants will get a dose of the study vaccine as an injection in a muscle in the upper arm. They will be observed for 30 to 60 minutes. Blood pressure, heart rate, breathing rate, and temperature will be checked. The injection site will be examined.

Participants will get a diary card. They will write down any side effects they have after the vaccine dose, or they may use an electronic diary card. Participants will be asked to write down or enter any important medical events that may occur at any time during the study.

Participants will get a vaccine dose at 2 more study visits. They will have 4 follow-up visits at different times after a vaccine dose.

Participants will have 6 telephone calls in between the in-person visits. They will also have 1 telephone call 1 year after the third dose of vaccine. If possible, this visit can occur in person.

Participation will last about 18 months. There is an optional in-person visit or telephone call 2 years after the third dose of vaccine.
EBV|Epstein-Barr Virus Infection|Infectious Mononucleosis
BIOLOGICAL: EBV gp350-Ferritin Vaccine|OTHER: Matrix-M1
Local and systemic reactogenicity; unsolicited adverse events; serious adverse events; change in neutralizing antibody responses to EBV, -Local reactogenicity: pain, tenderness, redness, bruising, swelling; Systemic reactogenicity symptoms: headache, muscle pain, fatigue, chills, oral temperature, joint pain, nausea/ vomiting, diarrhea; Change in log10 antibody response to EBV from baseline to 1 month after third dose of vaccine(Day 210) as measured by neutralization assay., Reactogenicity during the 7-day period after each dose; unsolicited adverse events up to 30 days after each dose; serious adverse events through 1 month after the third dose:; neutralizing antibody response one month after third dose
Change in antibody responses to EBV gp350; change in CD4+ T cell responses to EBV gp350, -Change in log10 antibody response to EBV from baseline to 1 month after third vaccine dose measured by a luciferase immunoprecipitation assay; --Change in log10 CD4+ T cell response from baseline to one month after third dose measured by an intracellular cytokine staining assay., Change in antibody responses and change in CD4 T cell responses at 1 month after third dose of vaccine
Study Description:

Phase 1 study to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of a 3-dose vaccination regimen of an adjuvanted EBV gp350-Ferritin nanoparticle vaccine. Based on data reported in animal studies, our hypothesis is that this EBV vaccine will be safe and will induce a potent EBVgp350-specific immune response. Twenty EBV seropositive participants and 20 EBV seronegative participants will receive 3 doses of vaccine at 0, 1, and 6 months. Subjects will be followed until 12 months after the third dose of vaccine with an option to be followed for an additional year.

Objectives:

Primary objective:

To determine the safety and immunogenicity of an adjuvanted EBV gp350- Ferritin vaccine administered as 3 intramuscular injections to healthy adults with or without prior EBV infection.

Secondary objective: To further evaluate the immunogenicity of an adjuvanted EBV gp350-Ferritin vaccine administered to healthy adults.

Endpoints:

Primary endpoint consists of:

* Local and systemic reactogenicity signs and symptoms during the 7-day period after each vaccination
* Unsolicited adverse events up to 30 days after each vaccination
* Serious adverse events through Day 210
* Change in log10 antibody response to EBV from baseline to 1 month after the third dose of vaccine (Day 210) as measured by neutralization assay

Secondary endpoints:

* Change in log10 antibody response to EBV gp350 from baseline to Day 210 as measured by luciferase immunoprecipitation system (LIPS) assay
* Change in log10 CD4 T cell response to EBV gp350 from baseline to Day 210 as measured by intracellular cytokine staining