A Study of Tiragolumab Plus Atezolizumab and Atezolizumab Monotherapy in Participants With Metastatic and/or Recurrent PD-L1-Positive Cervical Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tiragolumab in combination with atezolizumab and atezolizumab monotherapy in patients with programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)-positive cervical cancer (metastatic and/or recurrent).
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Tiragolumab|DRUG: Atezolizumab
Independent Review Committee (IRC)-Assessed Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) on two consecutive occasions \>/=4 weeks apart, as determined by the IRC according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. The study enrolled patients with measurable disease as determined by the investigator. Participants found to have non-measurable disease at baseline according to RECIST v1.1 (through IRC assessment or Protocol Deviations) were only considered responders if they achieved a CR., From randomization up to approximately 17 months
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., Up to 36 months|IRC-Assessed Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined for participants who had an objective response as the time from the first occurrence of a documented objective response (CR or PR) to the date of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause (whichever occurred first), as determined by the IRC according to RECIST v1.1. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters at prior timepoints (including baseline). The study enrolled patients with measurable disease as determined by the investigator. Participants found to have non-measurable disease at baseline according to RECIST v1.1 (through IRC assessment or Protocol Deviations) were only considered responders if they achieved a CR., First occurrence of a documented objective response to the date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 17 months)|IRC-Assessed Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a CR, PR, or stable disease (SD), as determined by the IRC according to RECIST v1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for CR or PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. Participants were classified as SD only if SD was observed on two consecutive assessments \>/= 6 weeks apart. The study enrolled patients with measurable disease as determined by the investigator. Participants found to have non-measurable disease at baseline according to RECIST v1.1 (through IRC assessment or Protocol Deviations) were only considered responders if they achieved a CR., From randomization up to approximately 17 months|Investigator-Assessed Best Clinical Response (BCR) Rate, BCR is defined as the percentage of participants with a CR, PR, or SD, as determined by the investigator. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for CR or PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. Participants were classified as SD only if SD was observed on two consecutive assessments \>/= 6 weeks apart., From randomization up to approximately 17 months|Investigator-Assessed Duration of BCR, Duration of BCR is defined for BCR responders as the time from the first occurrence of a documented response (CR, PR, or SD) to the date of PD or death from any cause (whichever occurred first), as clinically determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for CR or PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. Participants were classified as SD only if SD was observed on two consecutive assessments \>/= 6 weeks apart. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters at prior timepoints (including baseline)., First occurrence of a documented clinical response to the date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 17 months)|IRC-Assessed Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of PD or death from any cause (whichever occurred first), as determined by the IRC according to RECIST v1.1. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters on study (including baseline)., From randomization to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 17 months)|IRC-Assessed PFS Rate at 6 Months, PFS rate is defined as the percentage of participants that were event free, as determined by the IRC according to RECIST v1.1. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters on study (including baseline)., 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time of randomization to death from any cause., From randomization to death from any cause (up to approximately 17 months)|OS Rate at 6 Months and 12 Months, Reported here are the percentages of participants who were still alive at 6 months and 12 months., 6 months, 12 months
Minimum Serum Concentration (Cmin) of Tiragolumab, Pre dose: Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 and 16|Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Tiragolumab, Cycle 1 Day 1 at 30 minutes post-dose|Cmin of Atezolizumab, Pre dose: Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 and 16|Cmax of Atezolizumab, Day 1 of Cycle 1 at 30 minutes post-dose|Percentage of Participants With Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADAs) to Tiragolumab, Participants were classified as treatment-emergent ADA-positive if they were ADA negative at baseline or missing data but developed an ADA response following study drug administration (treatment-induced ADA response) or if they were ADA-positive at baseline and the titre of one or more post-baseline samples was at least 4-fold greater (i.e., ≥ 0.60 titre units) than the titre of the baseline sample (treatment-enhanced ADA response)., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles (each cycle is 21 days) 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 and 16|Percentage of Participants With ADAs to Atezolizumab, Participants were classified as treatment-emergent ADA-positive if they were ADA negative at baseline or missing data but developed an ADA response following study drug administration (treatment-induced ADA response) or if they were ADA-positive at baseline and the titre of one or more post-baseline samples was at least 4-fold greater (i.e., ≥ 0.60 titre units) than the titre of the baseline sample (treatment-enhanced ADA response)., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles (each cycle is 21 days) 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 and 16
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tiragolumab in combination with atezolizumab and atezolizumab monotherapy in patients with programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)-positive cervical cancer (metastatic and/or recurrent).