Testing the Use of Targeted Treatment (AMG 510) for KRAS G12C Mutated Advanced Non-squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (A Lung-MAP Treatment Trial)
This phase II Lung-MAP treatment trial studies the effect of AMG 510 in treating non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer that is stage IV or has come back (recurrent) and has a specific mutation in the KRAS gene, known as KRAS G12C. Mutations in this gene may cause the cancer to grow. AMG 510, a targeted treatment against the KRAS G12C mutation, may help stop the growth of tumor cells.
Lung Adenocarcinoma|Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Sotorasib
Response rate (confirmed, complete or partial), Up to 3 years
Incidence of adverse events, The frequency and grade of individual toxicities attributable to treatment will be estimated., Up to 3 years|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals about medians will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method and about landmark time points will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions and associated confidence intervals will be estimated for within cohort objectives. With participants in Cohort 1 and 3 and participants in Cohort 2, binary proportions can be estimated to within 16% and 20% with 95% confidence, respectively., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals about medians will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method and about landmark time points will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions and associated confidence intervals will be estimated for within cohort objectives. With participants in Cohort 1 and 3 and participants in Cohort 2, binary proportions can be estimated to within 16% and 20% with 95% confidence, respectively., Up to 3 years|Duration of response, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals about medians will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method and about landmark time points will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions and associated confidence intervals will be estimated for within cohort objectives. With participants in Cohort 1 and 3 and participants in Cohort 2, binary proportions can be estimated to within 16% and 20% with 95% confidence, respectively., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the response rate (confirmed, complete or partial) of AMG 510 in participants with KRAS\^G12C mutated stage IV or recurrent non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate investigator assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS) within each cohort.

II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) within each cohort. III. To evaluate duration of response (DOR) among responders within each cohort.

IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities within the full study population (all cohorts combined).

TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the association between clinical outcomes (response, IA-PFS, OS) and other co-mutations (e.g., CDKN2A/B/C, ATM, PIK3CA) identified by the Foundation Medicine Inc (FMI) FoundationOne CDx from LUNGMAP, within cohorts and across the full study population of KRAS\^G12C positive participants.

II. To evaluate the association between clinical outcomes (response, IA-PFS, OS) and PD-L1 total proportion score determined by screening in LUNGMAP, within cohorts and across the full study population of KRAS\^G12C positive participants.

III. To evaluate the association between clinical outcomes (response, IA-PFS, OS) and Tumor Mutational Burden Score determined by the FMI FoundationOne CDx from LUNGMAP, within cohorts and across the full study population of KRAS\^G12C positive participants.

IV. To collect, process, and bank cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) at pre-treatment on cycle 1 day 1, cycle 2 day 1, cycle 3 day 1, and at progression for future development of a proposal to evaluate comprehensive next-generation sequencing of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and association with clinical outcomes.

Note: The translational medicine proposal to use these specimens will be submitted as a revision to CTEP for approval, prior to the SWOG Statistical and Data Management Center (SDMC) review of assay results.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive AMG 510 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years if the disease has not gotten worse at the time of finishing study treatment. If the disease has gotten worse, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years, then at the end of the 3 years from the time they go on study.