Single Fraction Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy After Surgery in Treating Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This trial studies the side effects of single fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy after surgery in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Standard radiation for lung cancer involves delivering small doses of daily radiation for several weeks. However, this technique has resulted in inferior outcomes compared to surgery and is associated with damage to surrounding normal lung. Stereotactic body radiation therapy uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. Giving stereotactic body radiation therapy in fewer treatment sessions (single fraction) may kill tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Positive Surgical Margin|Resected Mass|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Incidence of grade 3 or greater toxicities, Hospitalization resulting from radiation treatment will be recorded. Any acute (=\< 180 days after the end of radiation therapy \[RT\]) and late (\> 180 days after the end of RT) toxicities will be documented using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Toxicity rates will be presented with Clopper-Pearson 90% confidence intervals (alpha = 0.10)., Up to 5 years|Feasibility of single fraction SBRT, Feasibility will be assessed by the median time to initiation of systemic treatment (TST) following the combination of surgery and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT), as this interval will reflect the probability of completing intended treatment., Up to 5 years
Time to initiation of systemic treatment (TST), The proportion of patients who have TST \< 8 weeks will be recorded. The median time will be presented with a 90% confidence interval (CI)., From the date of surgery until the date of systemic treatment initiation, assessed up to 5 years|Quality of life (QoL), The QoL scores, from European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and EORTC QLQ Lung Cancer?Specific Module, and cumulative toxicity rates will be compared be at each time-point (starting 5 weeks after SBRT) between tumor locations using the Mann-Whitney U and Fishers exact tests, respectively. Comparisons of QoL scores between time-points will be made using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. All secondary analysis will be conducted at the 10% significance level. The QoL scores will also be examined for time trends and effects of patient characteristics using regression analysis., Up to 5 years|In-field failure (IFF) rate, IFF rate will be reported for the total cohort and at 3- and 5-years. The IFF will be monitored using a Bayesian approach. The monitoring will start after 3 patients have received treatment., Up to 5 years
Progression free survival (PFS), The PFS will be described using standard Kaplan-Meier methodologies. The median survival time, 3-year survival rate, and 5-year survival rate will be estimated and presented with 90% CI., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), The OS will be described using standard Kaplan-Meier methodologies. The median survival time, 3-year survival rate, and 5-year survival rate will be estimated and presented with 90% CI., From SBRT completion until death (event) or end of study/lost to follow-up (censored), assessed up to 5 years|Change in immune markers, Changes in the mediators of tumor antigen presentation, costimulatory molecules, immune effector cell populations, such as CD4+ and CD8+ T-cells, T regulatory cells (CD4+CD25+FoxP3+), natural killer (NK) cells, monocytes, macrophages, dendritic cells (DCs) and myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) will be measured., Baseline up to 5 weeks post-SBRT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess feasibility and toxicity of single-fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in the post-operative setting.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess quality of life following post-operative single-fraction SBRT. II. Assess rate of in-field failures.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess progression free survival and overall survival following post-operative SBRT for stage III/IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Changes in the inflammatory markers.

OUTLINE:

Beginning at least 2 weeks after surgical resection, patients undergo 1 fraction (or 5 fractions every other day if R2 resection of central tumor) of SBRT.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 5 and 12 weeks and then periodically for up to 5 years.