Decitabine Followed by Idarubicin and Cytarabine in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory AML and MDS
The goals of this study are to learn about the effectiveness, the side-effects, if waiting to give the idarubicin and cytarabine may change the side effects or effectiveness, and to identify factors to predict for responses to this therapy. The trial will examine combination of three chemotherapy drugs. These drugs are decitabine, idarubicin, and cytarabine.
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts
DRUG: decitabine|DRUG: idarubicin|DRUG: cytarabine
Number of Participants Who Achieved Morphologic CR, Morphologic complete remission (CR): Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC)≥1,000/uL, platelet count ≥100,000/uL, \<5% Bone Marrow (BM) blasts, no Auer rods (cytoplasmic inclusions which result from an abnormal fusion of the primary (azurophilic) granules), no morphologic dysplasia, and no evidence of extramedullary disease, Participants were monitored up until the point when they went off study following completion of the treatment (3 months)
Resistant Disease Defined as Patient Survives at Least 14 Days After Completion of the Last Dose of Induction or Re-induction But Has Persistent Leukemia in Peripheral Blood (PB) or BM, Assessed for up to 90 days|Cytogenetic Response Defined as no Detectable Cytogenetic Abnormality in a Subsequent BM Specimen After Induction or Re-induction, Assessed for up to 5 years|CRMRD- Defined as Morphologic CR Without Evidence of Minimal Residual Disease by Flow Cytometry, Cytogenetics, or Other Known Molecular Biomarkers, Assessed for up to 5 years|CRi Defined as Meeting All Criteria for a Morphologic CR But ANC Remains Less Than 1,000/μL and/or Platelet Count Less Than 100,000/μL, Assessed for up to 5 years|CRMRD+ Defined as a Morphologic CR But With Minimal Residual Disease by Flow Cytometry, Cytogenetics, or Other Known Molecular Biomarkers, Assessed for up to 5 years|CRiMRD+ Defined as Meeting All Criteria for a CRi But With Evidence of Minimal Residual Disease by Flow Cytometry, Cytogenetics, or Other Known Molecular Biomarkers, Assessed for up to 5 years|TRM With Each Course of Decitabine-priming, Idarubicin, and Cytarabine, Assessed for up to Day 30|Frequency and Severity of Grade 3, 4, and 5 Toxicities With Each Course of Decitabine-priming, Idarubicin, and Cytarabine According to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version (CTCAE) 4.0, Assessed for up to 3 months after completion study treatment|Severe Prolonged Aplasia, Assessed for up to 45 days|Duration of Severe Neutropenia Defined as an ANC Less Than 500, Assessed for up to 5 years|Duration of Moderate Neutropenia Defined as an ANC Less Than 1000, Assessed for up to 5 years|Duration of Thrombocytopenia Defined as Platelet Count Less Than 100,000, Assessed for up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the morphologic complete remission (CR) rates using a decitabine (DAC)-priming followed by idarubicin (IDA) and cytarabine (ARAC) in patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine CR without minimal residual disease (CRMRD-), CR with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), CR with minimal residual disease (CRMRD+), and CR with incomplete blood count recovery and with minimal residual disease (CRiMRD+) rates.

II. To estimate the frequency and severity of regimen-related toxicities.

III. To identify biomarkers (e.g., deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\] methylation and expression changes including interferon regulatory factor \[IRF\]8) associated with clinical responses.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days -4 to 0, cytarabine IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-7, and idarubicin IV over 10-15 minutes on days 1-3.

ARM II: Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days -9 to -5 and cytarabine and idarubicin as in Arm I.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.