Ofatumumab Induction and Maintenance in Elderly Patients With Poor Risk CLL in the Context of Allogeneic Transplantation
To study the safety and efficacy of anti-CD20 blockade with ofatumumab in the context of allogeneic HCT in CLL
Chronic Lymphatic Leukemia
DRUG: Ofatumumab
Response rate after induction therapy, efficacy analysis of anti-CD20 blockade with ofatumumab, week 9|rate of MRD-negative patients, rate of MRD-negative patients who did not experience relapse, progression or death within the first 14 months after study enrollment, baseline, week 9, month 14
Rate of allogeneic HCT, Rate of patients who reach allogeneic HCT if HLA-matched donor is available, month 9|adverse drug reactions grade III/IV, week 1 till week 9; month 4 till month 9; month 12; month 14; until 30 days after last administration of the study medication|Overall, event-, and progression free survival, week 1 till week 9; month 4 till month 9; month 12; month 14; up to 5 years follow-up|relapse incidence, month 4 till month 9; month 12; month 14; up to 5 years follow-up|non-relapse mortality, week 1 till week 9; month 4 till month 9; month 12; month 14; up to 5 years follow-up|Incidences of acute and chronic GVHD, provided that allogeneic HCT was conducted, during maintenance therapy; month 12, month 14; up to 5 years follow-up
The goal of the study is to investigate the safety and efficacy of a consequent anti-CD20 therapy with the antibody ofatumumab in the context of allogeneic HCT. Allogeneic HCT itself is not a study intervention and is triggered by the availability of an HLA-compatible stem cell donor. The study is divided into an induction part and a maintenance part. During induction where the antibody is combined with high dose dexamethasone, the main goal is to reduce the tumor load prior to allogeneic HCT. Patients who achieved disease control (CR, PR and SD) by the antibody proceed to maintenance therapy with the antibody. Patients with progressive disease go off study. The idea behind maintenance therapy is that ofatumumab may contribute to tumor control early after allogeneic stem cell transplantation while T-cell based graft-versus leukemia effects are still not fully established. External tumor control could lower the pressure to taper immunosuppressive drugs early after transplantation and could thereby indirectly contribute to better GVHD-prophylaxis. Furthermore, anti-CD20 antibodies have proven activity in the treatment of chronic GVHD. In summary, the concept of a consequent CD20 blockade in the context of allogeneic transplantation could result in better leukemic control and better GVHD prophylaxis, which is a highly attractive goal.