Safety, Ultrasound Conspicuity, and Migration of Twinkling Markers in Patients With Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
This phase I study assesses the safety, ultrasound visibility (conspicuity), and movement from normal position (migration) of the twinkling marker in patients with breast cancer that has spread to the axillary lymph nodes (locally advanced) who will be undergoing neoadjuvant systemic therapy and surgery. Biopsy markers are used to identify the sites of cancer involvement in both the breasts and lymph nodes. These biopsy markers are needed to help guide breast cancer surgery. Twinkling markers are designed to have the same size and shape of conventional biopsy markers, but are made of a radio-opaque material that assists with localization of the marker. The twinkling marker may make it more easily seen with ultrasound at the time of breast cancer surgery as compared to conventional biopsy markers.
Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Breast Carcinoma|Resectable Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Mammogram|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound-Guided Biopsy|DEVICE: Twinkle marker
Long-term efficacy of the twinkling marker, The primary outcome is information on the long-term efficacy of the twinkling marker in humans placed in the lymph nodes of patients undergoing neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST) for breast cancer. The data will explore the presence/absence of the twinkling artifact associated with the twinkling marker under ultrasound., through study completion, an average of 4 months
Determination of safety and migration of the twinkling marker, The secondary outcome is determination of safety and migration of the Mayo-designed twinkling marker in patients after NST. Clinical notes will be reviewed to assess for any complications related to the twinkling marker during NST. Migration will be determined from surgical and pathology documentation., through study completion, an average of 4 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To show that the biologically inert, Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved material that comprises the Mayo-developed twinkling marker, either pre-made and sterilized or made immediately before placement, (Patent Application Title: Non-Metallic Ultrasound-Detectable Markers Patent Application No.: 62/903,078, Application Type: Provisional) remains conspicuous under ultrasound after neoadjuvant systemic therapy in patients with clinically node-positive breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety and migration of the Mayo-designed twinkling marker in patients during neoadjuvant systemic therapy (NST).

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo percutaneous ultrasound-guided breast clip placement with a conventional biopsy marker (if not already present) and a twinkling marker throughout the trial. Patients undergo a breast ultrasound during screening, on study, and as clinically indicated. Patient also undergoes a mammogram on study and as clinically indicated as well as a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as clinically indicated.