Ibrutinib, Obinutuzumab and Venetoclax for Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
Background: Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) is the most common leukemia in the occidental countries. Until now, it is considered a chronic disease without a cure. The development of new molecular therapies have showed that the cure may be an option. This protocol propose a triple sequential therapy with three direct therapies for the leukemic cell: an inhibitor of Bruton´s tyrosine kinase (ibrutinib), a second generation monoclonal antibody versus CD20 (obinutuzumab) and a BCL-2 inhibitor (venetoclax) as treatment of first or second line in CLL.

Objective: Negativize the minimal residual disease and by this way obtain longer survivals (overall survival and relapse free survival).

Design: This is a multicenter, longitudinal, experimental, open, non-randomized and non-comparable study coordinated by the "Grupo Cooperativo de Hemopatías Malignas" situated on Hospital Angeles Lomas in Huixquilucan, México. The study, is a phase II clinical study that will employ three target therapy drugs in sequencing phases. It will start with a BTK inhibitor as induction, later an anti-CD20 will be used for consolidation and it will end with a BH3 analog as maintenance for one year. The primary outcome is the negativization of minimal residual disease.
B-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|B-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia in Relapse (Diagnosis)
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Obinutuzumab|DRUG: Venetoclax
Best response obtained, The best response obtained will be defined as CR with negative MRD by the iwCLL response criteria measured subsequent a cytoreduction treatment, induction and consolidation with the triple sequencing therapy with Ibrutinib, Obinutuzumab and Venetoclax in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia., Two months after finishing the triple sequencing therapy
Overall Survival, Defined as the time since the end of treatment to time of death in the patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in treatment with a triple sequencing therapy with Ibrutinib, Obinutuzumab and Venetoclax, Three years|Relapse-Free Survival, Defined as the time since the end of treatment to time to relapse in the patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in treatment with a triple sequencing therapy with Ibrutinib, Obinutuzumab and Venetoclax, Three years|Rate of AcuteToxicity, Adverse effects associated to triple sequencing therapy with Ibrutinib, Obinutuzumab and Venetoclax, Two years|Rate of Late Toxicity, Adverse effects associated to triple sequencing therapy with Ibrutinib, Obinutuzumab and Venetoclax on long term follow up., Three years
The international recommendations indicate that the first line of treatment for patients \<65 years old and with no significant comorbidities (fit patients) the known regime of FCR with recommendation of category 1 and later bendamustine with antiCD20 or ibrutinib. For patients \>65 years old or not fit for intensive treatment it is recommended chlorambucil with obinutuzumab, monotherapy with ibrutinib, bendamustine with antiCD20 or chlorambucil with another antiCD20 like rituximab or ofatumumab. In case of patients with high-risk alterations of relapse due to positive MRD at the end of the treatment it is recommended a maintenance schedule with lenalidomide.

The antibodies against CD20 have shown through the years its activity in diverse alterations of B-cells. Rituximab was approved in 1998 for B-cells Non-Hodgkin lymphomas including CLL. Currently there are new anti-CD20 with more activity than rituximab. One of them is obinutuzumab which, by the monoclonal antibody engineering shows a greater affinity to the union of the epitope CD20 generating increased cellular cytotoxicity.

Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK), generates signaling cascades for the cell survival by the NF-KB and MAP kinases way, which leads to the transduction of the B cell receptor (BCR). Ibrutinib is a molecule that inhibits BTK inducing apoptosis in the B cells being currently used in the diverse mature B cell neoplasms.

Another therapeutic target is the BCL-2 protein (B-cell lymphoma 2) which is a key regulator in the apoptotic and it's compromised in the B cell neoplasms. Venetoclax is a mimetic drug to BH3 that blocks the function of BCL-2.

Based in the old and new drugs described in CLL, there is a great number of combinations that can be applied in the different phases of the disease as well as by risk stages and physical state of the patient. Before this scenario diverse CLL study groups proposes the strategy of sequencing in three phases (triple T) trying to prevent the development of leukemic subclones, minimize the use of chemotherapy that generates secondary mutations in CLL and other neoplasms. These type of treatment counts with the advantage of: 1) being available for patients physically fit or not due to the a limited toxicity of the drugs, 2) applying in an out-of-hospital environment and 3) adjusting the treatment according to the response to generate an effective cost in the new drugs. Thus, it is proposed the cytoreduction sequencing for 1 to 2 cycles, induction for 6 to 12 months and the MRD maintenance that could go from one year up to undefined with ibrutinib, obinutuzumab and venetoclax in that order.