Phase 2 Study of Alisertib (MLN8237) in Combination With Paclitaxel Versus Placebo in Combination With Paclitaxel as Second Line Therapy for Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC)
This is a two-arm, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, phase 2 study designed to is to determine if the combination treatment can improve progression free survival (defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death, whichever occurs first) when compared with placebo + paclitaxel.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Alisertib|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Determined by Investigator, Analyzed Using FDA Guidelines, PFS is defined as time in days from start of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression based on Investigator's assessment or up to death due to any cause, whichever occurs first based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v 1.1. Progressive disease (PD) was defined as ≥20% increase in sum longest diameter (LD) in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Every cycle for first 6 months and then every 2 months until disease progression or death or up to data cut-off: 03 January 2016 (approximately 22 months)
Percentage of Participants Who Experience at Least One Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An Adverse Event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with treatment. An AE can be any unfavorable and unintended sign (eg, clinically significant abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with use of drug, whether or not it is considered related to drug. A treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) is defined as an AE with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug. A Serious Adverse Event (SAE) is any experience that suggests significant hazard, contraindication, side effect or precaution that:results in death, is life-threatening, required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, is congenital anomaly/birth defect or is medically significant per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03., From the first dose through 30 days after the last dose of study medication: data cut-off 03 January 2016 (Up to 10.8 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time in days from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Contact every 2 months after EOT/disease progression until the sooner of death, study closure, or 14 months after the last participant was randomized up to data cut-off: 3 January 2016 (approximately 22 months)|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieved CR or partial response (PR) as best response based on Investigator's assessment according to RECIST v 1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and (if applicable) normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR was defined as ≥ 30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD., Baseline until disease progression, death or EOT up to data cut-off: 03 January 2016 (approximately 9.8 months)|Complete Response Rate (CRR), CRR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieved CR as best response and based on Investigator's assessment according to RECIST v 1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and (if applicable) normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., Baseline until disease progression, death or EOT up to data cut-off: 03 January 2016 (approximately 9.8 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved CR, PR, or SD (when SD was a minimum of 8 weeks in duration). Duration of SD was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression for participants who achieved SD as their best overall response. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and (if applicable) normalization of tumor marker levels. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR was defined as ≥ 30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., Baseline until disease progression, death or EOT up to data cut-off: 03 January 2016 (approximately 9.8 months)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a PR or better to the date of first documentation of PD for responders. PR was defined as ≥ 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions in reference to Baseline sum LD. PD was defined as ≥20% increase in sum LD in reference to the smallest on-study sum LD, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From first documented response until disease progression until data cut-off 03 January 2016 (approximately 9.8 months)|Change From Baseline in Symptom (QLQ-LC13 Cough Scale, QLQ-C30 Dyspnea Scale, QLQ-C30 Pain Scale) Score at Cycle 5, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 is 30-item questionnaire with 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social), 1 global health status scale, 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea, vomiting and pain), 6 single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). Most questions use 4-point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'; 2 questions use 7-point scale (1=very poor - 7=Excellent). Total Score=0-100 scale; for 5 functional scales and global quality-of-life scale, a higher score=a better level of functioning. For symptoms scale, higher score= higher level of symptoms. EORTC QLQ-LC13 is considered as standard instrument to assess the quality of life (QL) of lung cancer participants. Total Score=0-100. Higher score=increase in level of symptomatology. The change between (QLQ-LC13 Cough Scale, QLQ-C30 Dyspnea Scale, QLQ-C30 Pain Scale) score collected at Cycle 5 relative to baseline., Baseline up to Cycle 5 (approximately 4.6 months)|Percentage of Participants Experiencing Symptom Relief, Percentage of participants experiencing symptom relief, including coughing relief, dyspnea relief, and pain relief. Coughing relief is defined as a decrease from baseline ≥ 10 in QLQ-LC13 cough scale/item score. Dyspnea relief is defined as a decrease from baseline ≥ 10 in QLQ-C30 dyspnea scale/item score. Pain relief is defined as a decrease from baseline ≥ 10 in QLQ-C30 pain scale score. EORTC QLQ-C30 is 30-item questionnaire with 5 functional scales, 1 global health status scale, 3 symptom scales, 6 single items. Total Score=0-100 scale; for 5 functional scales and global quality-of-life scale, a higher score=a better level of functioning. For symptoms scale, higher score= higher level of symptoms. EORTC QLQ-LC13 is considered as standard instrument to assess the QL of lung cancer participants. Total Score=0-100. Higher score=increase in level of symptomatology., Baseline up to Cycle 11, data cut-off: 03 January 2016 (approximately 9.8 months)|Time to Symptom Relief, Time to symptom (coughing/dyspnea/pain) relief was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first detection of coughing/dyspnea/pain relief, respectively., Baseline up to Cycle 11, data cut-off: 03 January 2016 (approximately 9.8 months)|Time to Symptom Progression, Time to coughing/dyspnea/pain progression was defined as time from the date of randomization to date of first detection of progression. Coughing progression was defined as increase from baseline ≥10 in QLQ-LC13 cough scale/item score. Dyspnea progression was defined as increase from baseline ≥10 in QLQ-C30 dyspnea scale/item score. Pain progression was defined as increase from baseline ≥10 in QLQ-C30 pain scale score. EORTC QLQ-C30 is 30-item questionnaire with 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social), 1 global health status scale, 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea, vomiting and pain), 6 single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). The QLQ-LC13 is 13-item scale for assessing treatment-specific symptoms in lung cancer. Total Score= 0-100 scale; for 5 functional scales and global quality-of-life scale, higher score=better level of functioning. For symptoms scale, higher score=higher level of symptoms., Baseline up to Cycle 11, data cut-off: 03 January 2016 (approximately 9.8 months)|Observed Plasma Concentration for Alisertib, Day 1 pre-dose and 1, 2-4, 3-6, 10-11 hours post-dose; Day 8, 2 hours post-dose; Day 15, 6-9 hours (hrs) post-dose|Observed Plasma Concentration for Paclitaxel, Day 1 pre-dose and 1, 2-4, 3-6, 10-11 hours post-dose; Day 8, 2 hours post-dose; Day 15, 6-9 hours post-dose
Biomarker Correlative Studies Including Circulating Tumor Cells and Circulating DNA Assessments, Day 1 cycle 1 in a 28-day cycle|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL ), Baseline up to Cycle 11, data cut-off: 03 January 2016 (approximately 9.8 months)
The drug tested in this study is called alisertib. Alisertib is being tested to treat people who have Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC). This study determined the safety and efficacy for alisertib when given twice a day along with paclitaxel.

This open label study enrolled 178 patients. Participants were randomly assigned (by chance, like flipping a coin) to one of the two treatment groups-which remained undisclosed to the patient and study doctor during the study (unless there is an urgent medical need) and participants were stratified at baseline as to whether brain mets were present or not; whether they were sensitive to prior therapy or were relapsed/refractory to prior therapy; and by world region:

* Alisertib 40 mg + Paclitaxel 60 mg/m\^2
* Paclitaxel 80 mg/m\^2 + Placebo (dummy inactive pill) - this is a tablet that looks like the study drug but has no active ingredient

All participants received treatment until their disease progressed or they experienced unacceptable alisertib-related toxicity.

This multi-center trial was conducted world-wide. The overall time to participate in this study was approximately up to 22 months. Participants made multiple visits to the clinic, and were contacted by telephone every month for 6 months after the end of treatment (EOT) for follow-up assessment of progression free survival and for overall survival every 2 months until death, study closure, or 14 months after randomization of the last participant.