Veliparib, Topotecan Hydrochloride, and Filgrastim or Pegfilgrastim in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Cervical Cancer
This phase II clinical trial is studying the how well veliparib, topotecan hydrochloride, and filgrastim or pegfilgrastim work in treating patients with persistent or recurrent cervical cancer. Veliparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as topotecan hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by blocking them from dividing. Giving veliparib with chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells. Filgrastim or pegfilgrastim may cause the body to make more blood cells and help it recover from the side effects of chemotherapy.
Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Cervical Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Cervical Small Cell Carcinoma|Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Stage III Cervical Cancer|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer|Stage IVB Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pegfilgrastim|DRUG: Topotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Veliparib
Tumor Response, Complete and Partial Tumor Response as Assessed by RECIST 1.1. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target and non-target lesions without evidence of new lesion; Partial Response (PR), at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD with no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesion. Complete or partial response requires confirmation at greater than or equal to 4 weeks from initial documentation., Every other cycle for first 6 months; then every 3 months thereafter until disease progression confirmed; and at any other time if clinically indicted based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease. The average time was 2.3 months|Number of Patients With Dose-limiting Toxicities (in Safety lead-in), A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is assessed by NCI CTCAE v4, occurring during cycle 1 of therapy.: A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as either hematologic or non-hematologic toxicity assessed by NCI CTCAE v4, occurring during cycle 1 of therapy, which cause any of the following: For hematologic toxicity - dose delay of greater than 2 weeks due to failure to recover counts, Treatment related febrile neutropenia, grade 4 neutropenia lasting \>7 days, treatment related grade 4 thrombocytopenia or clinically significant bleeding with grade 3 thrombocytopenia. For non-hematologic toxicity; study treatment related grade 3 or 4 non-hematological toxicity (excluding anorexia, constipation, fatigue, hypersensitivity/allergic reaction to one of the study drugs, nausea \& vomiting, and grade 3 dehydration), grade 4 nausea and vomiting for \>48 hours despite maximum medical management, electrolyte imbalance of \> or equal to grade 3 that can be replaced within 48 hours; any drug related death, Up to 21 days|Adverse Events (Grade 3 or Higher) During Treatment Period, Number of participants with a maximum grade of 3 or higher during treatment period. Adverse events are graded and categorized using CTCAE v4.0., During treatment period and up to 30 days after stopping the study treatment.The average of study treatment time was 2.3 months.
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is the period of time from study entry to time of disease progression, death or date of last contact, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest dimensions (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of one or more new lesions, or global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression., From study entry to disease progression, death or date of last contact, whichever occurs first, up to 5 years of follow-up.|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., From study entry to death or last contact, up to 5 years of follow-up.|Duration of Objective Response, Duration of objective response is defined as the duration from the time measurement criteria is met for partial or complete response by RECIST 1.1, whichever is first recorded, until the first date the recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target and non-target lesions without evidence of new lesion; Partial Response (PR), at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD with no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesion. Complete or partial response requires confirmation at greater than or equal to 4 weeks from initial documentation., Every other cycle for first 6 months; then every 3 months until disease progression confirmed; and at any other time if clinically indicated based on symptoms or signs suggestive of progressive disease.The average of study treatment time was 2.3 months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the antitumor activity (objective response rate by RECIST 1.1) of ABT-888 (veliparib) 10 mg administered orally twice a day on days 1 to 5 with topotecan (topotecan hydrochloride) 0.6 mg/m\^2 administered IV once daily on days 1 to 5 of each cycle in patients with persistent or recurrent carcinoma of the cervix.

II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of ABT-888 and topotecan in patients with persistent or recurrent carcinoma of the cervix.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether evidence of an interaction exists between study treatments and tumor expression of poly(ADP-ribos)ylation of E2 protein, E6/E7 proteins, and p53R2 in relation to progression-free and overall survival or metastasis. (Translational) II. To explore the association between methylation of FanCF and BRCA in pre-treatment tumor samples and pre- and post-treatment biopsy samples and response, progression-free and overall survival of patients, and/or metastasis. (Translational)

OUTLINE:

Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily and topotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes once daily on days 1-5. Patients also receive, according to institutional standard, filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 6, 7, or 8 and continuing until hematopoietic recovery or pegfilgrastim SC on day 6, 7, or 8. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Tumor tissue samples may be collected periodically for translational studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.