Cholecalciferol in Newly Diagnosed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma or Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia With Vitamin D Deficiency
This randomized pilot early phase I trial studies how well cholecalciferol works in treating patients with newly diagnosed non-Hodgkin lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia with low levels of vitamin D (vitamin D deficiency). Cholecalciferol may increase levels of vitamin D and improve survival in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia receiving standard of care chemotherapy.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Untreated Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Vitamin D Deficiency
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Cholecalciferol|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Progression-free survival, The 3-year progression-free survival will be presented using Kaplan-Meier curves and will be presented for the normal serum vitamin D control group and the low and high dose randomized groups. Each randomized group (low and high dose) will be compared to a historical fixed expected 3-year progression-free survival of 45% using a one-sample logrank test following the method of Woolson (1981)., Time from the time of study entry of watch and wait or diagnosed non-Hodgkin lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia until relapse, progression, or death from any cause, assessed at 3 years
Incidence of adverse events and serious events graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Will be described for the low dose and high dose groups and compared between groups using a Chi-square. The frequency of occurrence of overall toxicity, categorized by toxicity grades, will be described for the low dose and high dose groups and compared between groups using a Chi-square., Up to 30 days|Overall survival, The 3-year overall survival will be presented using Kaplan-Meier curves and will be presented for the normal serum vitamin D control group and the low and high dose randomized groups. Each randomized group (low and high dose) will be compared to a historical fixed expected 3-year overall survival of 80% using a one-sample logrank test following the method of Woolson (1981)., Time from the time of study entry of watch and wait or newly diagnosed non-Hodgkin lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia administered on trial until death from any cause, assessed at 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the 3 year progression-free survival (PFS), defined as time from the time of study entry of watch and wait or newly diagnosed non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) until relapse, progression, or death from any cause.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in the levels of serum vitamin D levels during therapy with daily oral vitamin D supplementation (cholecalciferol).

II. To evaluate the overall survival (OS), defined as time from the time of study entry of watch and wait patients or newly diagnosed NHL or CLL until death from any cause.

OUTLINE: Patients with low levels of vitamin D are randomized to 1 of 2 arms and patients with normal levels are assigned to Arm III.

ARM I: Patients receive high-dose cholecalciferol orally (PO) daily for 3 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive low-dose cholecalciferol PO daily for 3 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Patients receive no intervention.