Comparing Telehealth and In-person Assessments in Glioma Patients Receiving Oral Chemotherapy
This phase IV trial compares patient satisfaction with telehealth versus in-person neuro-oncology assessments among glioma patients receiving oral chemotherapy. Gliomas are the most common primary central nervous system cancer and are associated with a high symptom burden, such as drowsiness, fatigue, memory difficulty, and difficulty communicating. Care at a high volume center is associated with an overall survival benefit, however, many patients may have physical or financial difficulties preventing access to these centers. Telehealth visits use computers, cameras, videoconferencing, the internet, satellite, and wireless communications to deliver healthcare, while in-person visits require the interaction to take place in the physical presence of someone else. Telehealth neuro-oncology assessments may be preferable compared to in-person assessments in glioma patients receiving oral chemotherapy.
Astrocytoma, IDH-Mutant|Glioblastoma|Glioma|Oligodendroglioma, IDH-Mutant and 1p/19q-Codeleted
BEHAVIORAL: Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Telemedicine Visit|DRUG: Temozolomide
Patient satisfaction with care delivered, Satisfaction will be measured using Press-Ganey survey scores. Scores following each cycle of chemotherapy will be compared between alternating telehealth and in-person visits. The mean score associated with the telehealth visits versus (vs.) the in-person visits will be calculated for each patient. Potential patterns of changes associated with these scores over time will be graphically evaluated. Repeated measures mixed effects models will be used to further evaluate potential influence of a time element with the satisfaction scores for telehealth vs. in-person assessments., Up to 6 months
Completion rate of planned oral chemotherapy, The proportion of doses planned for a cycle that are completed for the telehealth vs. the in-person cycles for patients will be evaluated. The average completion rates for telehealth vs. in-person assessment cycles will be evaluated and compared across patients., Within 28 days of telehealth or in-person visits and up to 6 months|Preference for telehealth vs. in-person neuro-oncologic evaluations, Preference will be assessed using the Visit Modality Preference Assessment, a single question with multiple choice answer (in-person visit, virtual visit, or no preference). These will be summarized both graphically and quantitatively and compared between the treatment groups., Up to 6 months|Acute care utilization days, Emergency department visits and days of hospitalization compared between telehealth visits and in-person visits will be summarized both graphically and quantitatively., Within 28 days of telehealth or in-person visits, up to 6 months|Neurologic impairment - NANO, Neurologic impairment will be measured by the Neurologic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (NANO) scale at each visit with rate of neurological decline within the 28 days following telehealth assessments compared to neurological decline within the 28 days following in-person assessments. he NANO scale is a quick, office-based assessment that evaluates eight neurologic domains, including Gait, Strength, Upper extremity ataxia, Sensation, Visual fields, Facial strength, Language, and Level of consciousness., Up to 6 months|Change in quality of life - EORTC QLQ-C30, Quality of life measures will be obtained using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) at baseline (enrollment) and following each chemotherapy cycle (28 days). The EORTC QLQ-C30 consists of three sections: functioning (15questions), symptom (13 questions), and global health status (2questions). The higher the total score, the better the quality of life; the lower the score in the symptom scale, the better the quality of life., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess patient satisfaction with care delivered as measured by institutional Press-Ganey survey scores obtained following telehealth and in-person assessments.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess completion rate of planned oral chemotherapy among patients with glioma within 28 days of telehealth visits compared to within 28 days of in-person visits.

II. Assess preference for telehealth versus in-person neuro-oncologic evaluations among patients with glioma receiving oral chemotherapy.

III. Assess acute care utilization days, defined as emergency department evaluations and days of hospitalization within 28 days of telehealth visits compared to within 28 days of in-person visits.

IV. Assess neurologic impairment as measured by the Neurologic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (NANO) scale will be measured at each visit with rate of neurological decline within the 28 days following telehealth assessments compared to neurological decline within the 28 days following in-person assessments.

V. Assess quality of life as measured by the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), a 30-item questionnaire that is used to assess the quality of life of cancer patients, completed at baseline and at the end of each chemotherapy cycle.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 6 cycles while on study in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients complete alternating telehealth assessment visits and in-person assessment visits after each cycle of treatment.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at 30 days.