ER Reactivation Therapy for Breast Cancer
Before anti-estrogens such as tamoxifen were developed to treat estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer, high-dose estrogen therapies were used. This seems counterintuitive since anti-estrogens block ER function, while estrogens increase ER function, but these therapies are effective to similar extents for the treatment of metastatic ER+ breast cancer. Estrogen therapies are most effective against cancers that develop resistance to anti-estrogens, likely because such cancers have adapted to grow without ER function, and restoring ER function (with estrogen) is damaging to the cancer cells. In some patients with ER+ breast cancer that becomes resistant to anti-estrogens, treatment with the estrogen 17B-estradiol induces tumor response. Furthermore, when 17B-estradiol-sensitive tumors eventually become resistant to 17B-estradiol, switching back to anti-estrogen therapy is often effective. These observations suggest that cancers can alternate between anti-estrogen-sensitive and 17B-estradiol-sensitive states. The investigators hypothesize that treatment with alternating 17B-estradiol / anti-estrogen therapies on a defined 8-week / 16-week schedule will more effectively prevent cancer growth than continuous treatment with either type of therapy in patients with metastatic anti-estrogen-resistant ER+ breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: 17B-estradiol|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Exemestane
Clinical benefit, Determine the rate of clinical benefit from alternating 17B-estradiol/aromatase. Clinical benefit is defined as complete response, partial response or stable disease at 24 weeks per RECIST criteria., 12 Months
Objective response rate, Determine the objective response rate of patients treated with 17B-estradiol therapy for 8 weeks. Objective Response is defined as complete response + partial response as per RECIST criteria; the proportion of patients experiencing objective response on 17B-estradiol will be calculated to determine objective response rate., 8 weeks|Progression-free survival, Determine the progression-free survival from alternating 17B-estradiol/aromatase inhibitor therapy in patients with advanced ER+ breast cancer. Progression-free survival is defined as the time period from the start of a treatment until the time of cancer progression or death from any cause. Cancer progression will be determined as per RECIST criteria., 12 Months|Adverse event profiles, Determine the adverse event profiles of 17B-estradiol and aromatase inhibitors in this patient population. Adverse events will be recorded as Grade 1, 2, 3, or 4. Incidences will be compared within patients over time., 12 Months|Predictive tumor genetic lesions, Determine whether specific tumor genetic lesions in ESR1 are predictive of response to 17B-estradiol and/or subsequent aromatase inhibitor therapies. The rates of clinical benefit from 17B-estradiol and/or subsequent AI therapy will be compared between patients with tumors with vs. without genetic lesions in ESR1., 12 Months
Metastatic breast cancer is rarely cured by current therapies. ER+ breast cancers ultimately become resistant to all available anti-estrogens. Response rates to estrogens are similar to those of anti-estrogens in the metastatic setting. Given that ER+ breast cancers are often responsive to anti-estrogens and estrogens, alternating anti-estrogen/estrogen therapies may be more effective than continuous treatment with either type of agent. Anecdotal evidence indicates that such a strategy of alternating therapies is effective in some patients. Preclinical evidence suggests that anti-estrogen-resistant ER+ breast cancers are sensitized to the anti-tumor effects of estrogens. Such cells harbor subpopulations that can ultimately regain the ability to grow in the presence of estrogens, and revert to their anti-estrogen-sensitive state. The investigators will formally test whether alternating 17B-estradiol/anti-estrogen therapies is effective for the management of anti-estrogen-resistant metastatic ER+/HER2- breast cancer, and to identify molecular biomarkers that predict tumor response to 1) 17B-estradiol and 2) alternating 17B-estradiol/anti-estrogen therapies. If successful, this study would present a novel strategy to manage metastatic ER+/HER2- breast cancer by pre-emptively switching therapies prior to disease progression.