Testing the Addition of Ipatasertib to Usual Chemotherapy and Radiation for Head and Neck Cancer
This phase I/Ib trial tests the safety and best dose of ipatasertib in combination with the usual treatment approach using chemotherapy together with radiation therapy ("chemo-radiation") in patients with head and neck cancer. Ipatasertib is in a class of medications called protein kinase B (AKT) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of tumor cells and may kill them. Cisplatin which is a chemotherapy used in this trial is in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. It works by killing, stopping or slowing the growth of cancer cells. Radiation therapy uses high energy to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving ipatasertib in combination with chemo-radiation may be better than chemo-radiation alone in treating patients with advanced head and neck cancer.
Clinical Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Head and Neck Carcinoma of Unknown Primary|Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Nasal Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Sinonasal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Maxillary Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Sinonasal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Sinonasal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Sinonasal Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Ipatasertib|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose of ipatasertib in combination with definitive chemo-radiation, Patients who receive at least 70% of the prescribed course of ipatasertib on radiation days will be evaluable for dose limiting toxicity assessment. After the escalation phase of the trial is completed, the MTD will be selected using the pooled-adjacent-violators algorithm, a type of isotonic regression, as specified in Liu and Yuan (2015)., At the completion of dose escalation phase, up to 56 days from treatment start date
Acute and late toxicities, Will be assessed according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Toxicities occurring \> 90 days from the end of radiation will be considered late toxicities. This will include assessment of long-term swallowing function, based on gastric tube dependency at 6 and 12 months as compared to baseline due to the effects of the primary tumor. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize these toxicities., From 90 days after the end of radiation treatment up to 1 year from treatment completion date|Duration and completion rate of prescribed radiation and chemotherapy, Descriptive statistics will also be used to summarize the duration and completion rate of prescribed radiation and chemotherapy., Up to 2 years|Objective response rate, Assessed based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, as well as locoregional control, relapse-free survival, and overall survival. Two-sample t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, or log rank test will be used where appropriate to analyze the correlation between efficacy outcomes and pre-treatment genotypic abnormalities in the AKT pathway based on whole exome sequencing and PTEN immunohistochemistry (IHC)., Up to 2 years|Pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of ipatasertib in combination with cisplatin, Will be assessed using peak and trough blood levels in patients administered ipatasertib orally during weeks 2 and 3 of study treatment. The combined therapy will be compared to historical PK data for drug alone, in order to assess for a drug-drug interaction., Up to 2 years|Pharmacodynamic effects of ipatasertib, Based on pAKT, pS6 and PRAS40 as markers of AKT pathway inhibition, and gamma-H2AX as a marker of radiosensitization. Two-sample t-test and Mann-Whitney U test will be used where appropriate to compare values before and after the addition of ipatasertib to chemoradiation., Up to 2 years|Locoregional control, Two-sample t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, or log rank test will be used where appropriate to analyze the correlation between efficacy outcomes and pre-treatment genotypic abnormalities in the AKT pathway based on whole exome sequencing and PTEN IHC., From start of treatment to cancer recurrence at the site of the primary tumor or the regional lymph nodes, assessed up to 2 years|Relapse-free survival, Two-sample t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, or log rank test will be used where appropriate to analyze the correlation between efficacy outcomes and pre-treatment genotypic abnormalities in the AKT pathway based on whole exome sequencing and PTEN IHC., From start of treatment to the time of cancer recurrence or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Two-sample t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, or log rank test will be used where appropriate to analyze the correlation between efficacy outcomes and pre-treatment genotypic abnormalities in the AKT pathway based on whole exome sequencing and PTEN IHC., From the start of treatment that patients are still alive, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of ipatasertib in combination with definitive chemoradiation in locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) based on dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess acute and late toxicities, based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.

II. To assess long-term swallowing function, based on gastric tube dependency at 6 and 12 months that is different from baseline.

III. To determine duration and completion rate of prescribed radiation and chemotherapy.

IV. To determine pharmacokinetic profile of ipatasertib in combination with cisplatin and radiation therapy, based on peak and trough blood levels in patients administered ipatasertib orally.

V. To determine pharmacodynamic effects of ipatasertib at the MTD, based on pAKT, pS6 and pPRAS40 as markers of AKT pathway inhibition, and gamma-H2AX as a marker of radiosensitization.

VI. To observe and record anti-tumor activity (objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria, locoregional control, relapse-free survival, and overall survival) of the combination of ipatasertib, cisplatin, and radiation therapy in patients with HNSCC.

VII. To correlate efficacy outcomes with tumor genotype, based on whole exome sequencing of pre-treatment biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ipatasertib in combination with fixed-dose cisplatin and radiation therapy followed by a dose-expansion study.

DOSE ESCALATION:

Patients receive ipatasertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) or Monday, Wednesday, and Friday depending on dose level on days 1-28 of each cycle. Patients also receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) weekly on day 1 of cycle 1, weeks 1-4 and day 1 of cycle 2, weeks 1-3 for 7 doses. Patients undergo radiation therapy (RT) daily (Monday-Friday) for 35 fractions during weeks 1-7. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT), CT, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during screening, follow-up, and as clinically indicated. Patients undergo blood sample collection on trial.

DOSE EXPANSION:

Patients receive ipatasertib PO MTD on days 2-28 or 3-28 of cycle 1 and 1-28 of subsequent cycles. Patients also receive cisplatin IV weekly on day 1 of cycle 1, weeks 1-4 and day 1 of cycle 2, weeks 1-3 for 7 doses. Patients undergo RT daily (Monday-Friday) for 35 fractions during weeks 1-7. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo PET/CT, CT, or MRI during screening, follow-up, and as clinically indicated. Patients undergo blood sample collection and tumor biopsy on trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days and then every 3 months for up to 2 years.