Sensory Evaluation of Oral Nutrition Supplements in Patients at Risk for Mucositis Undergoing Cancer Treatment
This pilot clinical trial studies sensory evaluation of oral nutrition supplements in patients at risk for mucositis undergoing cancer treatment. Sensory evaluation may help to obtain input about new oral nutritional supplements that may increase nutrient intake and maintain or improve nutritional status, functional capacity, and quality of life in cancer patients.
Esophagitis|Malignant Neoplasm|Mucositis
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutritional Supplementation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
A creamy shake product with the highest total average nutrition supplement scores as assessed by questionnaires, Will identify one product from the creamy shake category with the highest total average score that will be selected to move onto further testing. The subjective assessments of each formula will be assessed and mean, standard deviation and range will be calculated for each response. There will be subjective evaluation of acceptance of the overall sensory attributes and flavor liking (9-point scale), open-ended description of sensory attributes and effects (aroma, flavor, aftertaste, off-flavors), flavor intensity, sweetness (too little, just about right, too thick) 5-point scale. In-mouth sensations (cooling, tingling, mouth wetting, refreshing, soothing, wetting) 9-point scale., Up to 1 year|A tea product with the highest total average nutrition supplement scores as assessed by questionnaires, Will identify one product from the tea category with the highest total average score that will be selected to move onto further testing. The subjective assessments of each formula will be assessed and mean, standard deviation and range will be calculated for each response. There will be subjective evaluation of acceptance of the overall sensory attributes and flavor liking (9-point scale), open-ended description of sensory attributes and effects (aroma, flavor, aftertaste, off-flavors), flavor intensity, sweetness (too little, just about right, too thick) 5-point scale. In-mouth sensations (Cooling, tingling, mouth wetting, refreshing, soothing, wetting) 9-point scale., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify two products (one from the creamy shake category and one from the tea category) with the highest total average score that will be selected to move onto further testing.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 10 different nutrition supplements orally (PO) and complete questionnaires based on each sample in a single session over 60-90 minutes.