Fludarabine Based Conditioning for Allogeneic Transplantation for Advanced Hematologic Malignancies
New conditioning regimens are still needed to maximize efficacy and limit treatment-related deaths of allogeneic transplantation for advanced hematologic malignancies. Over the past several years, the investigators have evaluated several new conditioning regimens that incorporate fludarabine, a novel immunosuppressant that has limited toxicity and that has synergistic activity with alkylating agents. Recent data have suggested that fludarabine may be used in combination with standard doses of oral or IV busulfan, thus reducing the toxicity previously observed with cyclophosphamide/ busulfan regimens.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Malignant Lymphoma|Hodgkin's Disease|Multiple Myeloma|Lymphocytic Leukemia|Myeloproliferative Disorder|Polycythemia Vera|Myelofibrosis|Aplastic Anemia
DRUG: fludarabine/busulfan|DRUG: fludarabine/ melphalan|DRUG: ATG
Number of Participants With Engraftment., Median time to ANC engraftment and platelet engraftment in both groups as well as the transfusion requirements measured within 30 days after transplant., Up to 30 days post-transplant
Participants With 100 Day Transplant-related Mortality., Day 100 transplant-related mortality was measured in both groups., Up to 100 days post-transplant.|Time to ANC and Platelet Engraftment, Days to ANC or platelet engraftment, Up to 30 days post-transplant|Number of Participants With Moderate to Severe (Grade 2-4) Acute Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD)., Acute GVHD grade 2-4 was assessed in patients in the FluBU and FluMel groups up to 100 days after transplant., Up to 100 days post-transplant (acute GVHD).
Treatment-related mortality and recurrence of disease account for the majority of treatment failures in allogeneic transplantation for advanced hematologic malignancies. The most commonly utilized conditioning regimens consist of cyclophosphamide and total-body irradiation or busulfan and cyclophosphamide. Other agents such as etoposide or thiotepa are sometimes added to maximize the antileukemic effect. New conditioning regimens are however still needed to maximize efficacy and limit treatment-related deaths. Over the past several years, the investigators have evaluated several new conditioning regimens that incorporate fludarabine, a novel immunosuppressant that has limited toxicity and that has synergistic activity with alkylating agents. Recent data have suggested that fludarabine may be used in combination with standard doses of oral or IV busulfan, thus reducing the toxicity previously observed with cyclophosphamide/ busulfan regimens.