Resistance Training to Prevent Lymphedema After Breast Cancer Surgery Randomized Controlled Study
Breast cancer-related lymphedema is one of the most common chronic complications of breast cancer survivors. In existing studies, the reported incidence of lymphedema ranges from 2.5% to 42.9% . At present, there is no cure for lymphedema. Resistance training has been proved by many studies to alleviate the symptoms of lymphedema, improve the muscle strength of the upper limbs of patients, and improve the quality of life of patients, while not worsening lymphedema. Based on the best evidence, this study intends to construct resistance appropriate for this clinical scenario Training program: Conduct 3-month intervention for patients after breast cancer surgery to explore the effect of resistance training on the grip strength of the affected limb, the range of motion of the shoulder joint of the affected limb, the occurrence of lymphedema of the affected limb, quality of life, etc.
Breast Cancer Female
BEHAVIORAL: Resistance training
Lymphedema occurrence, Tissue and local edema due to obstruction of lymphatic drainage, 3 months after intervention
Breast cancer-related lymphedema is one of the most common chronic complications of breast cancer survivors. In existing studies, the reported incidence of lymphedema ranges from 2.5% to 42.9% . At present, there is no cure for lymphedema. Resistance training has been proved by many studies to alleviate the symptoms of lymphedema, improve the muscle strength of the upper limbs of patients, and improve the quality of life of patients, while not worsening lymphedema. Based on the best evidence, this study intends to construct resistance appropriate for this clinical scenario Training program: Conduct 3-month intervention for patients after breast cancer surgery to explore the effect of resistance training on the grip strength of the affected limb, the range of motion of the shoulder joint of the affected limb, the occurrence of lymphedema of the affected limb, quality of life, etc.