A Phase I Study of High-dose L-methylfolate in Combination With Temozolomide and Bevacizumab in Recurrent High Grade Glioma
This is a Phase I/II non-randomized prospective study of high-dose L-methylfolate in combination with bevacizumab and temozolomide in patients with recurrent high-grade glioma. The primary objective of this phase II trial is to determine whether the addition of high-dose L-methylfolate to bevacizumab and temozolomide therapy improves progression-free survival (PFS) compared to previously reported results.
Malignant Glioma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Temozolomide|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin C
Maximum Tolerated Dose (Phase I), every 4 weeks, 28-day cycle, up to 6 months|Progression-free survival (Phase II), Disease progression is defined as either radiological or clinical/neurological progression (whichever occurs first), PFS is the time interval between the date of starting treatment and the date of disease progression or death, whichever comes first. If neither event has been observed, then the patient is censored at the date last documented to be free of progression. Progression-free and overall survival will be summarized non-parametrically using the method of Kaplan and Meier with standard errors based on Greenwood's formula., On treatment to disease progression or death for any reason, up to 12 months
Objective Response (Phase I), Response will be determined by neurologic examination and contrast-enhanced MRI initially after 8 weeks and then subsequently prior to every other cycle based on the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria (RANO)., every 8 weeks, up to 6 months|Number of patients with each worst-grade toxicity. (Phase I), To determine the safety profile of high-dose L-methylfolate (15mg, 30 mg, 60 mg or 90 mg) in combination with bevacizumab and temozolomide in patients with recurrent high-grade glioma as determined by number of patients with each worst grade toxicity using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 4.0, 1 = mild through 5 = death., every 4 weeks (28-day cycle), up to 6 months|Overall Survival (Phase II), median overall survival and time to survival in patients treated with L-methylfolate in combination with temozolomide and bevacizumab. The Duration of survival is the time interval between the date of starting treatment and the date of death. Patients still alive will be censored at the date of last follow-up., on study to date of death, up to 12 month
The phase I part of the study will be completed to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of high-dose L-methylfolate in combination with bevacizumab at 10mg/kg IV every 14 days, a 5-day regimen per month of temozolomide at 150 mg/m2/day and a 250 mg tablet of vitamin C. Dose escalation will involve 3 patients treated at each dose level of L-methylfolate (15mg, 30 mg, 60 mg or 90 mg), and the MTD will be confirmed by expansion of 3 additional patients. It is anticipated that 6 to 15 patients will be enrolled in the phase 1 part of the study. Patients will continue treatment until disease progression. Once the MTD of L-methylfolate has been determined, patients enrolled at a lower dose level may increase L-methylfolate dose to the MTD dose, per investigator discretion.

The phase II part of the study will consist of patients taking the MTD of L-methylfolate daily in combination with bevacizumab at 10 mg/kg IV every 14 days, a 5-day regimen per month of temozolomide at 150 mg/m2/day and a 250 mg tablet of vitamin C. There will be 32 patients treated in the Phase II study and the patients will continue treatment until progression. The 6 patients treated at the MTD cohort in Phase