Burden of Cervical Cancer in Tanzania
Cervical cancer screening is a worldwide problem especially in the developing world of which Tanzania belongs. It is diagnosed late in the third world because there are no diagnostic facilities and resource people. It occurs in the age groups between 40 and above and therefore affects the productive age of the community. It is well known that women generally are the backbone of every community and specifically in the developing countries.

The objective of this research is to analyze and quantify the burden of cervical cancer disease in the community. It will research the interpersonal and socioeconomic issues associated with cervical cancer disease in the family.
Cervical Cancer|-Socioeconomic Burden of Disease
Socioeconomic burden to households, 1. share of household consumption attributable to medical care (hospitals, dispensaries, etc.)
2. monthly household income (work hours, income sources, changes in the type or amount)
3. child school attendance, nutrition (school days missed in past week, meals eaten, source of proteins on day prior to interview), 12 months
Projection of economic impact on community, Combine rates of cervical cancer with the age and gender distribution in the Kilimanjaro Region (Tanzania Census), distribution of cancer stages, and primary outcomes from the study cohort to estimate of total medical expenses, income losses, and school days missed due to cervical cancer., 12 months
Cervical cancer screening is a worldwide problem especially in the developing world of which Tanzania belongs. It is diagnosed late in the third world because there are no diagnostic facilities and resource people. It occurs in the age groups between 40 and above and therefore affects the productive age of the community. It is well known that women generally are the backbone of every community and specifically in the developing countries.

The objective of this research is to analyze and quantify the burden of cervical cancer disease in the community. It will research the interpersonal and socioeconomic issues associated with cervical cancer disease in the family.