Effect of Vitamin D Supplementation on Testosterone Level in Women With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
The goal of this randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial is to learn about, the effect of low dose vitamin D supplementation compares with placebo-controlled group on testosterone level in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. Half of Participants will receive vitamin D and metformin while other half placebo and metformin.
PCOS|Vitamin D
DRUG: Vitamin D3|DRUG: Placebo Oral Tablet
Total Testosterone, The estimated testosterone level, is 15-46 ng/dL for a reproductive aged normal menstrual cycles woman . The results demonstrate that there is a diurnal rhythm of testosterone secretion during in girls, with the highest levels in the morning 6 am-10 am .Biochemical hyperandrogenism (TT \>46 ng/dl), 1 year
Fasting blood glucose, Impaired fasting glucose (IFG) when FBG is between 5.6-6.9 mmol/L, 1 year|Menstrual regularity, * Polymenorrheic (\<21 days),
* Eumenorrheic (21 - 35 days),
* Oligomenorrheic (36 days - 3 months) and
* Amenorrheic (\>3 months), 1 year|Hirsutism, mFG score of ≥6, 1 year|Vitamin D, A blood level of less than 20 ng/ml is considered deficiency, insufficiency is 21- 29 ng/ml, and sufficiency is 30 ng/ml or higher., 1 Year|BMI, Status BMI Underweight 15-19.9 Normal weight 20-24.9 Overweight 25-29.9 Class I Obesity 30-34.9 Class II Obesity 35-39.9 Class III Obesity ≥ 40, 1 Year
PCOS poses a significant challenge to women's health and quality of life. PCOS is a common heterogenous endocrine disorder in reproductive-aged women. PCOS is characterized by the presence of polycystic ovaries, menstrual dysfunction, infertility and biochemical (elevated androgens) and clinical (hirsutism and/or acne) hyperandrogenism. Hyperandrogenism and insulin resistance exacerbate one another in the development of PCOS, Research has suggested a potential link between Vitamin D deficiency and the prevalence and severity of PCOS. There is also evidence that Vitamin D has a direct effect on the ovaries and adrenal glands, which are the primary sites of androgen production in women. Vitamin D has been found to inhibit the synthesis of androgens in these glands, suggesting that it could potentially be used to manage hyperandrogenism in women with PCOS. Furthermore, studies have shown that Vitamin D supplementation can reduce insulin resistance in women with PCOS, which can subsequently lead to a decrease in the overproduction of androgens. may improves menstrual irregularities.

In human ovarian tissue, vitamin D stimulation of oestrogen and progesterone production and lack of effect on testosterone production may be explained by the expression of the aromatase gene and augmentation of aromatase activity by vitamin D.

Serum 25OH-D level has been shown to be negatively correlated with serum androgen levels DHEAS, testosterone and hirsutism. Assumption that vitamin D supplementation may also have a positive impact on serum testosterone levels. Metformin is prescribed for reducing IR in PCOS women. This is a double-blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial in PCOS women who are receiving Metformin therapy. The intervention group will receive Vitamin D Cholecalciferol (D3) 1000 I.U daily for 8 weeks, with the Metformin as prescribed by the physician whereas control group will receive placebo with Metformin during the study period. We will compare change of Total Testosterone, Vitamin D level, Fasting blood glucose, Hirsutism, Menstrual regularities and BMI, at the time of recruitment with after 8 weeks intervention in both the intervention and placebo controlled groups.