Preoperative Anti-PD-1 Antibody Combined With Chemoradiotherapy for Locally Advanced Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Esophagus
This study will evaluate the safety and feasibility of preoperative immune checkpoint therapy with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. And this study will provide valuable information for further clinical trials of preoperative pembrolizumab and other immune checkpoint therapy in esophageal cancer treatment.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Safety (Number of Participants With Grade 3 and Higher-grade Treatment-related Adverse Events), The number of participants with grade 3 and higher-grade treatment-related adverse events. Adverse events were evaluated using CTCAE 4.0, grade 3 treatment-related adverse events and higher-grade adverse events were reported., From date of treatment allocation until surgery was applied during study period or up to at least 90 days after last dose
Feasibility (Number of Participants Who Finished Pembrolizumab With Chemoradiotherapy and Receive Surgery Within 4-6 Weeks After Preoperative Therapies), The number of participants who finished pembrolizumab with chemoradiotherapy and receive surgery within 4-6 weeks after preoperative therapies., From date of treatment allocation until surgery or definitive chemoradiotherapy was applied, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 months|Pathologic Complete Response, Pathologic complete response was defined as the lack of all signs of cancer in tissue samples removed during surgery after treatment with pembrolizumab and chemoradiotherapy., Two weeks after surgery|Radiographic Response, To assess radiographic response to neoadjuvant pembrolizumab with concurrent chemoradiotherapy using RECIST 1.1. Complete metabolic response (cMR), defined as a physiological distribution of FDG uptake on PET-CT with a SUVmax value of less than 4 with no nodal uptake., From date of treatment allocation and during treatment period up to 3 months
Esophageal cancer ranks the eighth most common cancer (the fifth most common cancer in China), while ESCC is the most common subtype in Asia (more than 90 % in china). Radical resection is thought to be the mainstay of esophageal cancer treatment and preoperative CRT is well applied in treating locally advanced esophageal cancer. In a multicohort, phase IB study, pembrolizumab was used in 23 unresectable esophageal cancer patients. In this clinical trial, the incidence of grade 3 treatment-related adverse events was 39 % without the appearance of grade 4 and higher-grade adverse event, while the overall response rate reached 30 %. The safety of immune checkpoint therapy for unresected esophageal cancers using nivolumab, a different PD-1 monoclonal antibody, has also been confirmed by high quality clinical trials.

This study will evaluate the safety and feasibility of preoperative immune checkpoint therapy using pembrolizumab with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in patients with locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. And this study will provide valuable information for further clinical trials of preoperative pembrolizumab and other immune checkpoint therapy in esophageal cancer.