A Prospective, Multicenter Clinical Trial of Safety and Effectiveness of Nanosecond Knife Ablation for Liver Cancer
This is a prospective, multi-center, single-arm clinical trial. Four hospitals with national medical clinical trial institution qualifications are selected as clinical trial centers. Qualified participants will receive nanosecond pulse ablation therapy according to the routine procedures. The results will be recorded according to the requirements of the primary and secondary efficacy indicators. After then, statistical comparisons of effectiveness and safety of the product will be made according to groups.
Liver Cancer
PROCEDURE: nanosecond knife liver cancer ablation
Effectiveness analysis, The effective rate of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months
Secondary validity analysis, partial response rate of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, secondary ablation rate of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, progression-free survival of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, overall survival rate of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, quality of life score of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, alpha-fetoprotein levels, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, technical success rate of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, local control rate of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, complication rate of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months|Secondary validity analysis, device Use satisfaction of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer, 12 months
The prospective, multi-center, single-arm clinical trial is to evaluate whether the nanosecond knife can achieve the effectiveness and safety of liver cancer ablation treatment. Four hospitals with national medical clinical trial institution qualifications are selected as clinical trial centers. This clinical trial requires 190 subjects. Qualified participants will receive nanosecond pulse ablation therapy according to the routine procedures. The results will be recorded according to the requirements of the primary outcome (the effective rate of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer) and secondary outcomes (partial response rate, secondary ablation rate, progression-free survival, overall survival rate, quality of life score, alpha-fetoprotein levels, technical success rate, local control rate, complication rate, device Use satisfaction of nanosecond knife ablation for liver cancer). The first 2-month follow-up after the operation, CT, MR, CEUS, liver function, tumor markers were reviewed monthly to observe the lesion necrosis and tumor marker changes. After that, tumor markers, CEUS, or three-phase CT/MRI of liver were examined every 2 to 3 months. After two years, tumor markers, CEUS, or three-phase CT/MRI of liver were examined every 3 to 6 months. After then, statistical comparisons of effectiveness and safety of the product will be made according to groups.