Panc CA Risk Model & Biomarker Testing In High-Risk Cohort
The purpose of this study is to test a double screening strategy for pancreatic cancer, based on a model developed using patient medical records. Investigators would also like to test whether adding specific blood tests, can further help identify people who have a higher risk of pancreatic cancer than the general population, and would benefit from imaging in order to detect cancer early.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blood Specimen
Incident PDAC during the 3-year study observation period, The diagnosis of PDAC will be determined by ICD code (ICD10 codes C25.X, excluding C25.4), tumor registry records or pathology reports, 3 Years
Timing of incident PDAC occurrence, time from index date to diagnosis, 3 Years|Tumor stage at PDAC diagnosis, stage at diagnosis per tumor registry/pathology report, 3 Years
This research aims to identify people who have a higher risk of pancreatic cancer than the general population, by testing a double-screening strategy for pancreatic cancer. The purpose is to allow early detection of cancer, which potentially leads to cure.

The double-screening will include a computer-based model developed using clinical data from medical records, and three different blood tests for early detection of pancreatic cancer.

Participation in this study involves having medical records followed up for up to three years, and a single donation of blood specimens.

- This is a Combined Retrospective and Prospective Review:

* The first part of the study, involves collection of retrospective data from Electronic Health Record database (for the 3 collaborating HCOs) in order to deploy our EHR model, so that a high-risk group for pancreatic cancer can be identified. All individuals stratified into low, intermediate or high risk groups by the model, will be prospectively, electronically followed to assess outcome.
* The second stage is prospective, and involves requesting biological specimen donations from participants identified as high-risk, for biomarker testing. The prospective "observation period" is up to 3 years (depending on each subject's index date at retrospective recruitment and outcome). Biological specimens will be collected during the prospective "observation period,"