Phase Ib/II Trial of BEZ235 With Paclitaxel in Patients With HER2 Negative, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This is a prospective, multi-center, open-label, phase Ib/ II study (two parts) with patients that have locally advanced or metastatic HER2 negative breast cancer. The first part (phase Ib) will investigate the MTD / Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of the combination therapy of BEZ235 twice daily (b.i.d.) and weekly paclitaxel using a Bayesian model. When MTD/ RP2D is established the second part (phase II) will start. Phase II will evaluate the efficacy and the safety of weekly paclitaxel alone compared to weekly paclitaxel plus BEZ235 bid.
Inoperable Locally Advanced Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC)
DRUG: BEZ235|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Phase lb: Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) the first cycle of treatment, DLT is defined as treatment-related toxicity (classified according Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4) occurring during the first 28 treatment days and meeting specific protocol-predefined criteria.

The information will be integrated in a Bayesian logistic regression model with overdose control to estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)., At first treatment intake (Cycle 1 Day 1 = C1D1), C1D8, C1D15, C1D22 and C2D1 [a cycle = 4 weeks = 28 days]
Phase lb: Frequency and severity of adverse events, Incidence of adverse events (based on CTCAE Version 4) summarized by system organ class and/or preferred term, severity and relation to study treatment., At screening, every week (C1D1, C1D8, C1D15, C1D22, C2D1, C2D8, etc.) until 30-45 days after treatment discontinuation [estimated time frame: 18 months].|Phase lb: Progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from start of treatment to objective tumor progression or death from any cause. Radiological assessments will be performed every 8 weeks., At first treatment intake, every 8 weeks (C3D1, C5D1, C7D1, etc.) until disease progression or death for any cause [estimated time frame: 18 months].|Phase lb: Overall Response Rate (ORR), Proportion of patients with a best overall response of CR or PR according to RECIST 1.1, At first treatment intake, every 8 weeks (C3D1, C5D1, C7D1, etc.) during the study [estimated time frame: 18 months].|Phase lb: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Proportion of patients with a best overall response of CR, PR or SD with a duration of 24 weeks or longer according to RECIST 1.1, At first treatment intake, every 8 weeks (C3D1, C5D1, C7D1, etc.) during the study [estimated time frame: 18 months].
This is a prospective, multi-center, open-label, phase Ib/ II study (two parts) with patients that have locally advanced or metastatic HER2 negative breast cancer. The first part (phase Ib) will investigate the MTD / Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of the combination therapy of BEZ235 twice daily (b.i.d.) and weekly paclitaxel using a Bayesian model. When MTD/ RP2D is established the second part (phase II) will start. Phase II will evaluate the efficacy and the safety of weekly paclitaxel alone compared to weekly paclitaxel plus BEZ235 bid.