Lucrin® Depot Efficacy and Safety Monitoring Study in Patients With Advanced Prostate Cancer and Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms (LUTS)
The purpose of the study is to determine the influence of GnRH (gonadotropin releasing hormone) analogue - Lucrin Depot 11.25 mg (Lucrin Depot 3.75mg - in Ukraine) administration on intensity of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in patients with diagnosed locally advanced and/or metastatic prostate cancer and LUTS.
Advanced Prostate Cancer|Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms
DRUG: Leuprolide acetate Depot Susp. 11.25 mg (Poland), 3.75 mg (Ukraine)
The Change in the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) From Baseline to Month 12. The IPSS Has a Range From 0 to 35., The International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) is used to assess the severity of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and to monitor disease progression. The IPSS is calculated from 7 questions regarding incomplete emptying, frequency, intermittency, urgency, weak stream, and straining \[rated as 0 (not at all) to 5 (almost always)\], as well as how many times on average a participant has to get up to urinate at night (0=none to 5=5 times or more). The total score is classified as follows: 0 to 7 = mildly symptomatic; 8 to 19 = moderately symptomatic; and 20 to 35 = severely symptomatic., Baseline to 12 months
The Change in the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) From Baseline to 3, 6, 9, and 12 Months., The International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) is used to assess the severity of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) and to monitor disease progression. The IPSS is calculated from 7 questions regarding incomplete emptying, frequency, intermittency, urgency, weak stream, and straining \[rated as 0 (not at all) to 5 (almost always)\], as well as how many times on average a participant has to get up to urinate at night (0=none to 5=5 times or more). The total score is classified as follows: 0 to 7 = mildly symptomatic; 8 to 19 = moderately symptomatic; and 20 to 35 = severely symptomatic., Baseline to 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.|Percentage of Patients at Baseline With One of the Symptoms Connected With Prostate Cancer., Percentage of participants at baseline with one of the following symptoms connected with prostate cancer: hematospermia (blood in the sperm), lower abdominal pain, urine incontinence, erectile dysfunction, crotch pain, anal pain or bleeding, lumbar/back pain, bone pain, spinal compression symptoms, peripheral lymph node enlargement, and lymphatic oedema of lower extremities. The intensity of each symptom was rated by the participant from 1 (minimum) to 7 (maximum). Zero indicates that the symptom was not present., Baseline|Changes in the Intensity of Symptoms Connected With Prostate Cancer From Baseline to Month 3, 6, 9, and 12., Changes in the intensity of the following symptoms connected with prostate cancer: hematospermia (blood in the sperm), lower abdominal pain, urine incontinence, erectile dysfunction, crotch pain, anal pain or bleeding, lumbar/back pain, bone pain, spinal compression symptoms, peripheral lymph node enlargement, and lymphatic oedema of lower extremities. The intensity of each symptom was rated by the participant from 1 (minimum) to 7 (maximum). Zero indicates that the symptom was not present., Baseline to 3, 6, 9, and 12 months.|Reported Adverse Events/Serious Adverse Events, Adverse events (AEs) were collected during the course of the study from the first visit (Baseline) through the last visit (12 months). The number of participants experiencing a non-serious or serious adverse event or both types of events are summarized. See the Reported Adverse Event section for details., Baseline to 12 months
The remaining target is:

- to assess the intensity of LUTS in Polish and Ukrainian patients with locally advanced and metastatic prostate cancer, previously untreated with hormonal therapy