Omega -3 Fatty Acid in Combination With Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
This is a Phase I/II single site, open label clinical trial. The purpose of the Phase I portion is to determine the safety, tolerability, and recommended Phase II dose of Eicosapentaenoic Acid (EPA) when given daily in combination with a Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) in subjects with Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) in chronic stable phase. The recommended Phase II dose will be the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of EPA as determined by the evaluation of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). The Phase II portion will subsequently examine the Anti-CML effects of EPA when administered with a TKI at the recommended Phase II dose. This efficacy objective will be done by evaluating BCR-ABL p210 quantitative PCR blood levels every 3 months to 1 year.
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, Chronic Phase
DRUG: Eicosapentaenoic Acid|DRUG: Tyrosine kinase inhibitor
Phase I - Recommended Phase II Dose of EPA, Recommended Phase II dose of EPA will be established by using a standard 3 + 3 statistical design to determine the MTD as assessed by DLTs when administered orally in combination with a TKI in subjects with CML in stable chronic phase. Toxicity will be evaluated using the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 5.0., the time of initiation of the study medication to 30 days after last dose of study medication|Phase II - Anti-CML Response to Recommended Phase II Dose Eicosapentaenoic Acid, BCR-ABL transcript levels will be assessed every 3 months post initiation of Eicosapentaenoic Acid to assess Anti-CML response., 1 year
Molecular Responses of CML, Log reduction from stable molecular response with bcr-abl PCR at MR 3 or more to bcr-abl to major molecular response (MR 4.5) or complete molecular response, 1 year|Induction of Apoptosis in CML Leukemia Stem Cell by Formation of Δ12-PGJ3 and Other Metabolites, Apoptosis will be analyzed by in vitro correlative studies using subject's plasma with effect on known leukemia cell line with CML leukemic stem cells. EPA metabolite will be examined by flow cytometry using Annexin V staining and adding serum from treated study subject to murine CML cells grown in vitro culture. The evaluation will be done at baseline, Month 1, and every 3 months up to year 2, 2 years
Targeting CML leukemia stem cells is of paramount importance in successfully preventing cancer relapse. EPA metabolite, Δ12-PGJ3 may represent a new chemotherapeutic agent for leukemia that targets leukemia stem cells. Selective targeting of cancer stem cells may be potentially a highly effective treatment for cancer. As most CML patients treated with a TKI will reach a complete cytogenetic response, quantification of residual BCR-ABL transcripts by quantitative reverse transcription PCR (RT-qPCR) is a critical tool to further monitor response kinetics. Addition of EPA to TKI may help decrease residual BCR-ABL positive (Ph+) leukemia stem cells.