Evaluation of Abemaciclib and Radiation Therapy Before Surgery for the Treatment of High-Risk Adipocytic Retroperitoneal Sarcoma
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of abemaciclib and how well it works with radiation therapy before surgery in treating patients with high-risk adipocytic retroperitoneal sarcoma. Abemaciclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving abemaciclib together with radiation therapy before surgery may shrink tumors in patients with high-risk adipocytic retroperitoneal sarcoma.
Retroperitoneal Sarcoma
DRUG: Abemaciclib|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Surgical Procedure
Recommended phase 2 dose of abemaciclib in combination with radiation, Up to 28 days
Rate of pathologic response, Up to 2 years|Rate of surgical excision with negative margins, Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0., Up to 30 days post treatment|Rate of discontinuation of abemaciclib monotherapy, Within the first 15 days (+7 days) of Cycle 1 Day 1 (Cycle is 28 days)
OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of abemaciclib.

Prior to surgery, patients receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo radiation therapy over 28 fractions starting on cycle 1 day 15 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of radiation therapy, patients may undergo surgery. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.