A Trial of Niraparib in BAP1 and Other DNA Damage Response (DDR) Deficient Neoplasms (UF-STO-ETI-001)
This open-label, non-randomized study will investigate the use of niraparib in patients with tumors known to have mutations in BAP1 and other select DNA damage response pathway genes.
Mesothelioma|Uveal Melanoma|Renal Cell Carcinoma|Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Niraparib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Determine the objective response rate (ORR), which is defined as the percentage of subjects achieving a best overall response of partial or complete response (according to RECIST v1.1 criteria) from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence or 30 days after the end of treatment, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST v1.1 criteria, a partial response is defined as a 30% or more decrease in the sum of the largest diameters of the target lesions. Per RECIST v1.1 criteria, a complete response is defined as the disappearance of target lesions (lymph nodes identified as lesions must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm)., 1 year
Progression-Free Survival, Determine the median progression-free survival. Progression-free survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of progression or death or the date of last contact, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined by RECIST v1.1 criteria and is defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the largest diameters of target lesions and/or the appearance of new lesions., 8 months|Progression-Free Survival Rate at 3 Months, Determine the progression-free survival rate at 3 months after study entry in each cohort. This is the percentage of subjects that both have not had disease progression and are alive 3 months after study entry. Disease progression is defined by RECIST v1.1 criteria and is defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the largest diameters of target lesions and/or the appearance of new lesions., 3 months|Progression-Free Survival Rate at 6 Months, Determine the progression-free survival rate at 6 months after study entry in each cohort. This is the percentage of subjects that both have not had disease progression and are alive 6 months after study entry. Progression is defined by RECIST v1.1 criteria and is defined as an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the largest diameters of target lesions and/or the appearance of new lesions., 6 months|Overall Survival, Estimate the median overall survival. Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from date of study entry until date of death or date of last contact., 10 months
BAP1 is an ubiquitin ligase that is critical in helping to regulate the cell cycle, cellular differentiation, and cell death. This protein is also intimately involved with DNA double-strand break repair. Germline mutations in the BAP1 gene are associated with a hereditary cancer syndrome that increases the risk of uveal melanoma, mesothelioma and renal cell carcinoma. PARP is another protein that is crucial in DNA repair and enables continued cell replication and survival. It is hypothesized that PARP inhibition with niraparib will result in significant cytoreduction in patient tumors with mutations in BAP1 and other components of the DNA damage response pathway through synthetic lethality. Synthetic lethality is the inhibition of a gene that a cell relies on to compensate for the loss of another gene, resulting in the cell's demise.