Treatment of Cancer-Related Bone Pain by Using Bone-Targeted Radiation-Based Therapy (Sn-117m-DTPA) in Patients With Prostate Cancer That Has Spread to Bones
This phase II trial studies the effect of Sn-117m-DTPA on bone pain in patients with prostate cancer that has spread to the bones. Sn-117m-DTPA is a radioactive therapeutic agent that localizes to bones when given to patients. Sn-117m-DTPA may help reduce bone pain in patients with prostate cancer that has spread to the bones.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Bone|Metastatic Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Tin Sn 117m Pentetate
Sustained Pain Response, Defined as achieving pain index =\< 3 within a 12-week period, maintaining that pain index =\< 3 over a 16-week time period. Will also be summarized by the point estimation of the overall response rate (ORR) with the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Patients who received any amount of study drug will be included in the denominator for the calculation of ORR., Baseline to 16 weeks
Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), Safety and toxicity will be assessed through the frequency and percent of AEs, serious adverse events, and adverse events of special interests. Toxicity will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. Will be assessed by patient reported outcomes (PROs) and AEs (PRO-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events)., Up to 6 months post-therapy|Tin Sn 117m Diethylenetriaminepentaacetic Acid (DTPA) (Sn-117m-DTPA) Activity, Gamma camera dosimetry will be used to evaluate whole-body distribution of Sn-117m-DTPA. Pearson's correlation coefficient method will be used to assess the correlation between the baseline technetium-99 bone scintigraphy measurement and the Sn-117m-DTPA uptake. If the observed data distribution is not appropriate to calculate the Pearson's correlation, post hoc analysis will be conducted using non-parametric methods or other methods suitable to the observed data distribution. The gamma dosimetry scan measurements will be reported descriptively as the average and standard deviation of dosimetry scan measurements and plotted over time and grouped by organ systems., Up to 4 weeks after the first Sn-117m-DTPA administration|Overall Response Rate, A Fisher's exact 95% confidence interval will be calculated for the overall response rate. The denominator will include all patients who received at least one dose of study treatment and do not have major protocol deviations. Patients who do not have observed clinical response will be counted as negative responses., Up to 12 months after the first dose of tin Sn 117m DTPA|Time to First Symptomatic Skeletal Event, The time from study enrollment to the first use of external-beam radiation therapy to relieve skeletal symptoms, new symptomatic pathologic vertebral or non-vertebral bone fractures, spinal cord compression, or tumor-related orthopedic surgical intervention will be evaluated. Will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Estimation and confidence intervals for the median time to first symptomatic skeletal event will be provided., Up to 12 months|Overall Pain Response Rate, The rate of achievement of pain index =\< 3 within 12 weeks from the first Sn-117m-DTPA will be evaluated., Within 12 weeks from first dose of Sn-117m-DTPA|Duration of Pain Response, Time from the achievement of pain response (pain index =< 3) to the recurrence of pain (pain index >= 4), assessed up to 16 weeks|Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Response Rates, Will be determined for the following benchmarks: \>= 30% reduction of the blood level, compared to the baseline value; \>= 50% reduction of the blood level, compared to the baseline value; confirmed PSA response: \>=50% reduction of the blood level, compared to the baseline value, and confirmed by a second PSA value approximately 4 or more weeks later., Up to 28 weeks|Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP) Response Rate, Will be determined for the following benchmarks: \>= 50% reduction of the blood level, compared to the baseline value; confirmed ALP response: \>= 50% reduction of the blood level, compared to the baseline value, and confirmed by a second ALP value approximately 4 or more weeks later., Up to 28 weeks|Clinical Progression-free Survival, Defined as symptomatic progression (increasing pain from a metastatic lesion); progression of bone lesions assessed per Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 criteria; or progression of soft-tissue lesions assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 criteria. PSA progression without progression on bone lesions nor symptomatic is not considered as clinical progression. Will be summarized by Kaplan-Meier methods., Time of study enrollment until disease progression, assessed up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Will be summarized by Kaplan-Meier methods., Time of the first study treatment until the date of death, assessed up to 12 months
Tumor Genomic Alterations, Up to 12 months|Changes in Systemic Inflammatory Markers and Immune Cell Populations, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Baseline to after completion of treatment|Polo-like Kinase 1 Immunohistochemistry, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of tin-117m diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Sn-117m-DTPA) on sustained pain response in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) metastatic to at least two bone sites with at least one clinically meaningful pain at baseline (\>= 4 on an 11-point pain intensity scale).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and tolerability of Sn-117m-DTPA per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0.

II. To measure Sn-117m-DTPA activity by gamma-camera dosimetry scans (serial full body planar images) obtained at 1 hour, 4 hours (or within 4-6 hours), 24 hours (or within 16-24 hours), 48 hours (or within 36-48 hours), 72 hours (or within 60-72 hours), 1 week (+/- 2 days), and 4 weeks (+/- 2 days) after the first Sn-117m-DTPA administration.

III. To evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of Sn-117m-DTPA at 24 weeks as measured by Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria.

IV. To evaluate time to the first symptomatic skeletal event defined as i) the first use of external-beam radiation therapy to relieve skeletal symptoms; ii) new symptomatic pathologic vertebral or nonvertebral bone fractures; iii) spinal cord compression; or iv) tumor-related orthopedic surgical intervention.

V. To evaluate the overall pain response rate at 24 weeks. VI. To evaluate the duration of pain response defined as from the time of improvement in pain response (pain index =\< 3) until the pain recurs.

VII. To measure changes and time to progression in serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) levels.

VIII. To measure patient-reported outcomes (PROs) and adverse events (AEs) (PRO-CTCAE) captured by digital instruments.

IX. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine any tumor genomic alterations that may be associated with response or resistance to Sn-117m-DTPA, a radiopharmaceutical agent.

II. To examine the changes in systemic inflammatory markers (such as interferon \[IFN\]-gamma, tumor necrosis factor \[TNF\]-alpha, interleukins \[IL\]-8, IL-10, and IL-17) by flow cytometry, and changes in markers of immune function by measuring the percentage and absolute number of CD4+ T helper cells, CD8+ T cytotoxic cells, T regulatory cells, polymorphonuclear (PMN) myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), and mononuclear MDSCs (M-MDSCs) prior to treatment versus (vs.) end of cycle 1, end of cycle 2, and at week 24 and correlate values and/or changes with treatment outcomes.

III. To evaluate the feasibility of measuring polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) expression via immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining on archival tissues.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tin Sn 117m DTPA intravenously (IV) over 5-10 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive tin Sn 117m DTPA for an additional 2 cycles if pain recurs within 6 months after a 16-week pain observation period and no disease progression on bone scans, or evidence of clinical progression.

After completion of study, patients are followed up every 4 weeks until week 28, and then every 3 months for up to 12 months after the first dose of tin Sn 117m DTPA.