ATL001 in Patients With Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic NSCLC
This is a first-in-human, open-label, multi-centre, phase I/IIa study to characterise the safety and clinical activity autologous clonal neoantigen reactive T cells (cNeT) administered intravenously in adults with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Advanced Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: ATL001|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Assessment of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) to Evaluate Safety and Tolerability, Evaluate TEAEs and serious AEs, by incidence, severity and relationship to ATL001, 62 months due to early termination
Disease Assessment for Change From Baseline in Tumour Size, Evaluate the clinical activity of ATL001 in patients with advanced NSCLC using change from baseline in tumour size at week 6 , week 12 and best overall change from baseline, as assessed by investigator and independent central review (ICR), Every 6 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months for a maximum of 84 months|Disease Assessment for Time to Response (TTR) From ATL001 Infusion, Evaluate the endpoint of TTR by the investigator and ICR, per RECIST v1.1 and im-RECIST, Every 6 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months for a maximum of 84 months|Disease Assessment for Objective Response Rate (ORR), Evaluate the endpoint of overall response rate (ORR), as assessed by investigator and ICR, per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 and immune modified RECIST( im-RECIST).

RECIST v1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) is a standardized system for measuring tumor response to treatment in clinical trials. Tumors are assessed by imaging (e.g., CT or MRI) based on changes in size. Responses are categorized as:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): ≥30% reduction in the sum of target lesions. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progressive Disease (PD).

Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of target lesions, or appearance of new lesions.

These criteria help assess the efficacy of treatments in solid tumors supported by im-RECIST in immunotherapy., Every 6 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months (up to 62 months due to early termination)|Disease Assessment for Duration of Response (DoR). The DoR is Defined as the Time From the Date of First Documented Response Until the Date of Documented Disease Progression or Death, Evaluate the endpoint of DOR by the investigator and ICR, per RECIST v1.1 and im-RECIST, Every 6 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months for a maximum of 84 months|Disease Assessment for Disease Control Rate (DCR), Evaluate the endpoints of DCR as assessed by the investigator and ICR per RECIST v1.1 and im-RECIST, Every 6 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months for a maximum of 84 months|Disease Assessment for Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Evaluate the efficacy endpoints of PFS as assessed by the investigator and ICR per RECIST v1.1 and im-RECIST, Every 6 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months for a maximum of 84 months|Overall Survival (OS), Evaluate OS by the investigator, Every 6 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months for a maximum of 84 months
This is a first-in-human, open-label, multi-centre, phase I/IIa study to characterise the safety and clinical activity of autologous clonal neoantigen reactive T cells (cNeT) administered intravenously in adults with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Patients will initially enter the study for procurement of tumour materials required to manufacture ATL001.

Following manufacture of ATL001, the product will be given back to eligible patients following lymphodepletion. Patients will continue to be followed up for a minimum of 5 years, as part of a separate Long Term Follow Up Protocol, or, if the separate protocol is not available at the study site, within this protocol.