NFX-179 Topical Gel Treatment for Adults With Neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1) and Cutaneous Neurofibromas (cNF)
This is a randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, parallel group dose response study evaluating the safety and effectiveness of 2 concentrations of NFX-179 Gel in subjects with cutaneous neurofibromas. At Visit 1, the investigator will identify 10 Target cNFs that fulfil the enrollment criteria. The Target cNFs must be located on the subject's face, anterior trunk, or upper extremities. Two Target cNFs must be on the face and 8 must be on the anterior trunk or upper extremities. The study medication will be applied topically QD to the Target cNFs for 182days (26 weeks). During the duration of the study subjects will be evaluated for safety and efficacy.
Cutaneous Neurofibroma|Neurofibromatosis 1
DRUG: NFX-179 gel|DRUG: Vehicle gel
Safety and effectiveness of once daily NFX-179 gel treatment for 182 days measured by local tolerability assessments, safety laboratory tests, and target cNF volume reduction, Safety will be measured by routine safety laboratory tests (CBC/differential, serum chemistry, urinalysis), and local tolerability assessment where the investigator will assess erythema, edema, scabbing/crusting, vesiculation, and erosion. The subject will assess stinging, burning, and pruritus. All assessments are performed using a 4-point scale (0 none, 1 mild, 2 moderate, 3 severe). Effectiveness will be measured by the percent of treated subjects with at least a 50% reduction in cNF volume after 6 months of treatment., 182 days|Safety of once daily NFX-179 gel treatment for 182 days by adverse events and serious adverse events assessments, Safety of NFX-179 gel compared to the vehicle group will be measured by the assessment and occurrence of new and ongoing adverse events (AEs)/serious adverse events (SAEs)., 182 days
Percent of subjects with at least 50% Target cNF volume reduction after 182 days, Treatment effectiveness will be measured by the percent of treated subjects with at least a 50% reduction in cNF volume after 6 months of treatment. Tumor volume will be measured by ruler measurements and two-dimensional photography. All modes of tumor volume measurement are reported in cubic millimeters., 182 days|Percent change in cNF volume over 182 days, Percent change of tumor volume will be calculated through ruler measurements and two-dimensional photography throughout the course of treatment. All modes of tumor volume measurement are reported in cubic millimeters., 182 days|Physician's Tumor Assessment of Target cNF severity over 182 days, Effect of treatment with The Physician Tumor Assessment is the investigator's assessment of the average overall severity of each Target cNF tumor at a particular time point. The Physician Tumor Assessment is a 5-point measuring tumor severity (0 clear/none, 1 almost clear, 2 mild, 3 moderate, 4 severe). This assessment is performed at Screening, Baseline/Day 1, Days 58, 183, and 211., 182 days|Subject's Self-Assessment of Target cNF severity over 182 days, The Subject Self-Assessment is the subject's assessment of the average overall severity of each Target cNF at a particular time point and is not a comparison with any other time point. The Subject Self-Assessment is a 5-point measuring tumor severity (0 clear/none, 1 almost clear, 2 mild, 3 moderate, 4 severe). This assessment is performed at Screening, Baseline/Day 1, Days 58, 183, and 211., 182 days
Patient Reported Outcome Measure to assess Target cNF symptoms over 182 days, This assessment is performed via the subject's assessment of their experience over the previous week with 9 items for each Target cNF (sensitivity, pain, itch, noticeability, size, appearance, care to avoid irritation, how much the cNF bothers the subject, self-consciousness). Each item is assessed by using a 5-point scale., 182 days
This is a randomized, double-blind, vehicle-controlled, parallel group dose response study evaluating the safety and effectiveness of 2 concentrations of NFX-179 Gel in subjects with cutaneous neurofibromas. At Visit 1, the investigator will identify 10 Target cNFs that fulfil the enrollment criteria. The Target cNFs must be located on the subject's face, anterior trunk, or upper extremities. Two Target cNFs must be on the face and 8 must be on the anterior trunk or upper extremities. The study medication will be applied topically QD to the Target cNFs for 182days (26 weeks). During the duration of the study subjects will be evaluated for safety and efficacy.