ALPINE: Maintenance Letrozole/Abemaciclib Vs Pembrolizumab
A standard treatment for endometrial cancer is chemotherapy and pembrolizumab together followed by pembrolizumab maintenance for two years. This treatment regimen has shown benefit in terms of delaying cancer progression in prior clinical trials, but the benefit of the pembrolizumab maintenance treatment and whether all participants need it is unclear. This research is being done on the maintenance portion of treatment to compare the efficacy between the combination of letrozole + abemaciclib and pembrolizumab alone following chemotherapy and pembrolizumab.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Abemaciclib (a type of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor)
* Letrozole (a type of aromatase inhibitor)
* Pembrolizumab (a type of monoclonal antibody)
Endometrial Cancer|Recurrent Endometrial Cancer|TP53
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date the participant was randomized to the date of documented progressive disease (PD) by RECIST version 1.1 or death (regardless of cause) in the absence of progression, regardless of whether the participant withdraws from study drug or receives another anti-cancer therapy prior to progression. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation. A participant who dies without progression, and the death is \>12 weeks after the last evaluable tumor assessment, is censored for PFS at the date of last disease evaluation. A participant who has no baseline or no post treatment tumor assessment is censored at 0 days for PFS, unless she dies \< 12 weeks from randomization, in which case the PFS event date is the death date. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase., Up to 2 years
Grade 3-5 Adverse Events (AE) Rate, Grade 3-5 AE rate is defined as the proportion of patients who experience a grade 3-5 adverse event based on the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 as reported on case report form., Up to 2 years and 1 month|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive based on Kaplan-Meier methodology., Up to 5 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The percentage of participants who achieved complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Complete Response (CR) for target lesion: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. Partial Response (PR) for target lesion: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 2 years
This is a randomized, phase 2 trial of maintenance letrozole + abemaciclib vs. pembrolizumab after carboplatin + paclitaxel + pembrolizumab chemotherapy in participants with advanced or recurrent estrogen receptor (ER) positive (ER+), mismatch repair proficient (MMRP), TP53 wild-type endometrial cancer.

Participants will be randomized in one of two study groups: Abemaciclib + Letrozole vs. Pembrolizumab. Randomization means that a participant is placed into a study group by chance.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved abemaciclib, letrozole or pembrolizumab for endometrial cancer but they have been approved for other uses.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment visits, X-rays, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans, blood tests, and electrocardiograms (EKGs).

Participants will be administered study drugs for up to 2 years and will be followed for 3 years after completing study treatment.

It is expected that about 76 people will take part in this research study.

Eli Lilly is supporting this research study by providing funding and the study drug abemaciclib.