Study to Evaluate Treatment of Dabrafenib Plus Trametinib in Subjects With BRAF Mutation-Positive Melanoma That Has Metastasized to the Brain
This is a multi-cohort, open label, Phase II study with Dabrafenib (GSK2118436) and Trametinib (GSK1120212) combination therapy in subject with BRAF mutation-positive melanoma that has metastasized to the brain. This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of 4 cohorts. Cohorts will consist of; V600 E, D, K, R mutations, metastases to the brain, symptomatic and asymptomatic, with or without prior local (brain) therapy, with or without prior local (brain) therapy, and range of ECOG scores from 0-2.
Melanoma and Brain Metastases
DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: Trametinib
Intracranial Response (IR) Rate in Cohort A, The intracranial response rate is defined as the percentage of subjects achieving a confirmed intracranial CR or PR. This is based on investigator-assessed best intracranial response., From the start of treatment until disease progression or the start of new anti-cancer therapy
Intracranial Response Rate of Cohorts B, C and D, The intracranial response rate is defined as the percentage of subjects achieving a confirmed intracranial CR or PR. This is based on investigator-assessed best intracranial response. No hypothesis testing completed for cohort A, B,C and D, Approximately 2 years|Disease Control for Intracranial, Extracranial and Overall Response for Each Cohort, Disease Control rate is defined as the percentage of subjects achieving a confirmed intracranial/extracranial/overall CR or PR or SD or Non-CR/Non-PD. This is based on investigator-assessed response. No hypothesis testing completed for cohort A, B,C and D, Approximately 2 years|Extracranial Response Rate (ER) for Each Cohort, Extracranial Response Rate was defined as the percentage of participants with Complete response (CR) or Partial response (PR) at anytime. This is based on investigator-assessed response. No hypothesis testing completed for cohort A,B,C and D, Approximately 2 years|Overall Response (OR) for Each Cohort, the number of subjects with a confirmed overall Complete response (CR) or Partial response (PR) by investigator assessment using the Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST 1.1 criteria). To determine the overall response, all target and non-target lesions will be assessed using modified RECIST 1.1 criteria., Approximately 2 years|Duration of Intracranial, Extracranial and Overall Response for Each Cohort, Duration of intracranial, extracranial and overall response, are defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until time of first documented intracranial, extracranial, or overall disease progression. No hypothesis testing completed for cohort A,B,C and D, From first documented evidence of CR or PR until time of first documented intracranial, extracranial, or overall disease progression|Progression-free Survival (PFS) for Each Cohort Based on Investigator Assessment, PFS is defined as the interval between first dose and the earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause. No hypothesis testing completed for cohort A,B,C and D, From the first dose to the earliest date of disease progression or death|Overall Survival (OS) for Each Cohort, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the first dose until death due to any cause. No hypothesis testing completed for cohort A,B,C and D, From the first dose to death
This is a multi-cohort, open label, Phase II study with Dabrafenib (GSK2118436) and Trametinib (GSK1120212) combination therapy in subject with BRAF mutation-positive melanoma that has metastasized to the brain. This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of 4 cohorts. Cohorts will consist of; V600 E, D, K, R mutations, metastases to the brain, symptomatic and asymptomatic, with or without prior local (brain) therapy, with or without prior local (brain) therapy, and range of ECOG scores from 0-2.