A Combination of Pazopanib and Carboplatin in Advanced Solid Malignancies
This study is designed to investigate the possibility that use of two similar but distinct drugs used together in treatment of advanced cancer might prove less toxic than either agent used alone, because dosages can be reduced for each agent. This is a phase I study that is designed to measure the frequency and levels of specific side effects when Carboplatin and Pazopanib are used in combination in advanced cancer patients. The possibility that anti-tumor activity will occur is also going to be investigated.
Cancer, Metastatic
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pazopanib
Maximum tolerated dose of Pazopanib when used in combination with Carboplatin, Patients will receive 200mg of Pazopanib, with later subjects receiving higher dosages up to 800mg of Pazopanib. If a given dose level is not well tolerated when given on all days (1-21) of each cycle, the study will no longer use that dosage. Later subjects may take Pazopanib from days 3-19 of the three week cycle to see if that dosing schedule is better tolerated.

If patients experience side effects from Pazopanib or tests indicate some undesirable effects, then the dose level of Pazopanib that they are receiving may need to be adjusted, with increased monitoring., 3 months
Pazopanib has shown a promising anti-cancer activity as a single agent tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Activity against multiple tumors such as renal cell carcinoma (RCC) and neuroendocrine tumors have been documented, and it recently gained FDA approval for the treatment of metastatic kidney cancer. Also, an impressive activity as a single agent was recently reported in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in the neoadjuvant setting, where tumor shrinkage occurred in 86% of patients. Encouraging activity has also been seen in cervical cancer, ovarian cancer and soft tissue sarcomas. Multi-kinase targeting is an approach that may prove beneficial in a number of patient populations. In particular cancers such as breast, colon, pancreas etc., patients represent heterogeneous population of small groups based on genetic analyses. Some of these populations may benefit when multiple agents are given which have similar, but distinct targets of action. Dosages and therefore associated toxicities might be reduced by such an approach.