SV-BR-1-GM in Metastatic or Locally Recurrent Breast Cancer
This is a single arm, open label study of SV-BR-1-GM, a targeted immunotherapy for breast cancer. Eligible patients will have histological confirmation of breast cancer with recurrent and/or metastatic lesions. The treatment regimen includes a pre-treatment with low-dose cyclophosphamide 2-3 days before the inoculation; inoculation in 4 sites on the thighs and upper back; and post-treatment inoculation of Interferon-alpha-2b into the sites of inoculation \~2 and \~4 days after the inoculation. These is repeated every 2 weeks for one month (3 treatments), then monthly for up to one year. Standard tumor assessments are performed at baseline and then every 2-3 months.
Breastcancer|Breast Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: SV-BR-1-GM|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Interferon-alpha-2b
Number of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events Occurring in Two or More Patients [Safety], To evaluate the number of patients with toxicity events while on SV-BR-1-GM, as defined by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Duration of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events [Safety], To evaluate the duration of toxicity events while on SV-BR-1-GM, as defined by CTCAE, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Number of Participants With an Adverse Event Related to SV-BR-1-GM Administration [Safety], To evaluate the number of participants with an adverse event related to SV-BR-1-GM administration, as defined by CTCAE, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Objective Tumor Response Rate, Objective response rate (ORR), defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) and immune-related RECIST (iRECIST) criteria., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Rate of Non-progression of Tumors, Non-progressive rate, defined as CR, PR or stable disease (SD) per RECIST and iRECIST criteria, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Durability of Tumor Response, Durability of response, as defined as complete response (disappearance of all tumors), partial response (30% or greater reduction in the sum of diameters of target lesions (tumors) with stable disease in non-target lesions) or stable disease (less than 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions with no new lesions appearing) by evaluating those patients eligible to complete the optional treatments from 9-12 months, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Immune Responses to Vaccine, To assess immune responses to SV-BR-1-GM, and to recall antigens, if any, as measured by DTH skin tests and/or other immunological tests, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Quality of Life Using the SF-36 Health Survey, To measure the quality of life (QOL) of participants using the SF-36 Health Survey, which includes measures of General Health, Limitations of Activity, Physical Health Problems, Emotional Health Problems, Social Activities, Energy and Emotions., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Weight, To measure changes in weight., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Performance Status, To measure changes in performance status using the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) scale, Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Pain (Pain Scale), To measure changes in pain using a scale from None to Very Mild to Mild to Moderate to Severe to Very Severe, Through study completion, an average of 1 year
This is a single arm, open label study of SV-BR-1-GM in recurrent and/or metastatic breast cancer. The detailed treatment regimen follows:

Pre-Inoculation Regimen:

Cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan) 300 mg/m\^2 I.V., 1x only, will be given 48-72 hours before each SV-BR-1-GM inoculation, with an antiemetic of the provider's choice (steroids prohibited). If the patient is not tolerating the cyclophosphamide, a lower dose may be used (e.g. 200 or 150 mg/m\^2) or it may be withheld, with the Sponsor's approval.

Innoculation Day Standard Operating Procedures:

1. Inquire regarding events of past weeks, change in medications, pain scale, ECOG scale, and review of systems.
2. Check injection sites.
3. Perform DTH skin test intra-dermally with the SV-BR-1 parent cell line (\~1 x 10\^6 irradiated tumor cells). Observe about 20 minutes for acute hypersensitivity. Grade III or higher acute hypersensitivity will abort therapy.
4. Inject SV-BR-1-GM intra-dermally into 4 sites in thighs and upper back (0.5 mL each). Monitor patients for 60 minutes. Vital signs will be assessed and medical attention will be warranted if unstable.

SV-BR-1-GM Preparation \& Inoculation Regimen:

Each inoculation will be administered via intra-dermal injection at the investigational sites. Subjects will receive 15-25 x 10\^6 viable, irradiated transfected breast tumor cells in a total volume of 2.0 ml Ringer's lactate. SV-BR-1-GM cells will be irradiated to ensure cell replication incompetency.

SV-BR-1-GM will be divided into four aliquots of 0.5 mL each and injected intra-dermally; one each into the anterior skin of the subject's right and left thighs and over the right and left upper back . Application of anesthetic lidocaine crème may be used if necessary for control of local pain before inoculation. Subjects will be monitored for 60 minutes.

After at least 10 subjects have been treated safely with this regimen, the dose of SV-BR-1-GM may be escalated or decreased in subsequent patients based on the emerging data.

Post-Inoculation Regimen:

2 days (± 1 day) after inoculation, and again 4 days (± 1 day) later after inoculation, the patient will return to the principal investigator's office to receive Interferon-alpha-2b (Merck) in 0.1 mL saline, prepared as follows: These will also be provided by the sponsor and injected intra-dermally to each inoculation site, beneath the thickest area. Again, subjects will be observed about 20 minutes. The DTH response will also be recorded at the 2 days (± 1 day) visit.

This cycle will be performed every 2 weeks for the first month of treatment (3 inoculations), and then every month for up to one year.