A Clinical Trial in Patients With Breast Cancer Susceptibility Gene (BRCA) Defective Tumours
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) in combination with methotrexate (MTX) in patients with breast or ovarian cancer who are known to have a BRCA (breast cancer gene) mutation.
Breast Cancer|Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: 6-Mercaptopurine|DRUG: Methotrexate
Objective Response Rate to 6-mercaptopurine and Methotrexate (6MP/MTX) in This Patient Population., 1st stage: If less than 3/30 evaluable patients respond at 8 weeks the trial will be stopped for futility. If 3 or more out of 30 evaluable patients respond then a further 35 patients will be recruited (2nd stage) - this was met.

The proportion of patients responding to treatment (complete response, partial response or stable disease) at the second stage will be presented per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours (RECIST) criteria version 1.1 measured radiologically with computerised tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); the same method is used at baseline and at follow-up: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. Patients who yield progressive disease (PD) are classed as non-responders., 8 weeks after start of treatment
Quality of Life - EuroQol Group, Five Dimensions, Three-level (EQ-5D-3L) Standardized Instrument for Measuring Generic Health Status, Evaluated using the EQ-5D-3L questionnaire at baseline, 3 and 6 months, and at the end of treatment or 12 months, as well as using the ECOG performance status measure after each cycle, At the end of treatment or 12 months
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of 6-mercaptopurine (6MP) in combination with methotrexate (MTX) in patients with breast or ovarian cancer who are known to have a BRCA (breast cancer gene) mutation. 6MP is used instead of thioguanine(6TG) as it is converted to the same cytotoxic moiety as 6TG, ie. thioguanine nucleotides, but with reduced toxic effects. Low dose methotrexate is used in combination with 6MP as it promotes the formation of thioguanine nucleotides.