Study of a Pembrolizumab-based Organ Preservation Strategy for Locally Advanced Larynx Cancers
This a prospective, single-arm, multi-institutional, open label, phase 2 trial evaluating the effects of induction chemo-immunotherapy, followed by radioimmunotherapy, followed by consolidation immunotherapy in patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx who are candidates for organ preservation.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Larynx
DRUG: carboplatin AUC of 6, paclitaxel 175 mg/m2, and pembrolizumab 200 mg, i.v. on day 1, every 21 days for 3 cycles|RADIATION: Concurrent radio-immunotherapy: radiation therapy given concurrently with pembrolizumab 200 mg i.v. on day 1, every 21 days for 3 cycles.|DRUG: Consolidation immunotherapy: pembrolizumab 200 mg i.v. on day 1, every 21 days for 11 doses.
Two-year laryngectomy-free survival, The primary efficacy endpoint is the two-year laryngectomy-free survival of patients with locally advanced larynx cancers treated with the study regimen. This endpoint combines assessment of both survival and larynx preservation and was used in the pivotal RTOG 91-11 study (12, 14), thus allowing for comparison with a historical control., 24 months
Two-year larynx dysfunction-free survival, The secondary efficacy endpoint is two-year larynx dysfunction-free survival, which is a composite endpoint defined as the proportion of patients alive and without local recurrence and without lanryngoesophageal dysfunction. This endpoint reflects the necessity of evaluating not only survival with the larynx in place, but also laryngeal function, as stated in the recommendations by an international consensus panel (24). This endpoint was evaluated in the pivotal GORTEC 2000-01 trial (25, 26), thus allowing for comparisons with a historical control. Larynx dysfunction-free survival is also the primary endpoint of the ongoing, randomized, phase 3 trial GORTEC 2014-03, which will become a benchmark for larynx preservation studies in the near future. Predictive biomarkers of response survival will be evaluated as exploratory analysis., 24 months
This a prospective, single-arm, multi-institutional, open label, phase 2 trial evaluating the effects of induction chemo-immunotherapy, followed by radioimmunotherapy, followed by consolidation immunotherapy in patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx who are candidates for organ preservation.