Intra-patient Dose Escalation Study to Investigate Safety and Feasibility of Vactosertib in Treating Anemic MPN Patients
This study assesses the potential of using a TGFβ receptor inhibitor for the treatment of anemic patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms. TGFβ signaling is known to be abnormally high in patients with myeloproliferative neoplasms and it is thought that abnormal TGFβ signals cause many of the problems with blood cell formation in these diseases. The study design allows all patients to receive the study drug, vactosertib. The dose of vactosertib is individualized within a pre-set range based upon its effectiveness and tolerability. A total of up to 37 patients will be treated.
Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
DRUG: Vactosertib
Identify the safest, minimally effective starting dose level for patients on Tier 1, The safest minimally effective dose is defined as the lowest dose level for which no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) was observed in Tier 1 AND the lowest dose level for which at least one of the 12 subjects enrolled on Tier 1 meet Criteria for Clinical Benefit, Baseline to week 16|Identify dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in patients with MPN enrolled on Tier 1, Identify the incidence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) within the first 12 weeks which are defined as:

1. Any non-hematologic grade ≥3 toxicity except for nausea, vomiting or diarrhea lasting 3 days or less
2. Any grade 4 neutropenia of any duration
3. Any grade ≥3 neutropenia that has not recovered to grade ≥2 within 7 days of onset
4. Any grade ≥3 febrile neutropenia
5. Any grade ≥3 thrombocytopenia associated with clinically significant bleeding or requiring platelet transfusion, Baseline to week 12|Identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vactosertib in patients with MPN enrolled on Tier 1, Identify the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of vactosertib defined as the highest dose which does not meet the Tier 1 stopping rule. The tier 1 stopping rule is triggered if any patient experiences a Grade 5 dose limiting toxicity within the first 12 weeks of starting vactosertib or if more than five patients experience a dose limiting toxicity at any dose within the first 12 weeks on study., Baseline to week 12|Number of Tier 2 patients who have achieved Erythropoietic response as defined by the International Working Group-Myeloproliferative Neoplasms Research and Treatment (IWG-MRT) criteria, Number of patients who achieve an erythropoietic response defined by:

1. HGB increase of 1.5g/dL compared to baseline hemoglobin;
2. Reduction in PRBC transfusion rate to ≤ 50% of pre-treatment transfusion rate; or
3. Reduction in PRBC transfusions by ≥ 4 Units over an 8-week period., baseline to week 16|Number of Tier 2 patients who have achieved clinical response in symptoms as defined by International Working Group (IWG) criteria, Number of patients who have achieved clinical response defined by a reduction in Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form (MPN-SAF) total score by ≥ 50% compared to pretreatment score, baseline to week 16|Number of Tier 2 patients who have achieved splenic response in symptoms as defined by International Working Group (IWG) criteria, Number of patients who have achieved splenic response defined by:

1. Non-palpable spleen when baseline spleen size was 5-10 cm below left costal margin;
2. At least 50% reduction in spleen size when baseline spleen is \> 10 cm below left costal margin
3. At least 35% reduction in spleen size as assessed by US, CT or MRI., baseline to week 16|Identify dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in patients with MPN enrolled on Tier 2, Identify the number of dose limiting toxicities (DLT) within the first 12 weeks which are defined as:

1. Any non-hematologic grade ≥3 toxicity except for nausea, vomiting or diarrhea lasting 3 days or less
2. Any grade 4 neutropenia of any duration
3. Any grade ≥3 neutropenia that has not recovered to grade ≥2 within 7 days of onset
4. Any grade ≥3 febrile neutropenia
5. Any grade ≥3 thrombocytopenia associated with clinically significant bleeding or requiring platelet transfusion, baseline to week 12|Identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vactosertib in patients with MPN enrolled on Tier 2, Identify the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of vactosertib defined as the highest dose which does not meet the Tier 2 stopping rule. The tier 2 stopping rule is triggered if any patient experiences a Grade 5 dose limiting toxicity within the first 12 weeks of starting vactosertib or if more than five patients experience a dose limiting toxicity at any dose within the first 12 weeks on study., baseline to week 12
Number of patients in which a histological response is seen, Histological response is defined by reduction of any amount in grade of bone marrow fibrosis by histopathologic assessment at 16 weeks., 16 weeks|Number of patients in which a molecular response is seen, Number of patients in which a molecular response is seen. Molecular response is defined by a reduction of X amount in VAF of MPN-driver mutations (eg. JAK2, CALR, and MPL allelic ratio) in blood and/or bone marrow cells, 16 weeks|Number of patients in which a pharmacodynamic response is seen, A pharmacodynamic response is defined as any of the following:

1. Reduced immunohistochemical staining for SMAD2/3 phosphorylation in bone marrow biopsy sections.
2. Reduced mean fluorescence intensity of SMAD2/3 phosphorylation staining in peripheral blood hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) or mature progeny as assessed by flow cytometry.
3. Reduced mean fluorescence intensity of SMAD2/3 phosphorylation staining in bone marrow hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) or mature progeny as assessed by flow cytometry., 16 weeks|Number of patients who have experienced any of the following: hematologic toxicities, infections, disease progression, and thrombosis events, baseline to 16 weeks|Overall survival defined as the amount of time a patient is alive after starting study treatment, baseline to 16 weeks|Progression free survival defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression, baseline to 16 weeks
This is a two-tiered multi arm Phase 2 trial of vactosertib (TEW-7197) for the treatment of anemia in Ph-neg MPNs. Both tiers use a rule-based, accelerated dose escalation scheme to efficiently assess the potential of vactosertib to safely and effectively treat anemic patients with Ph-neg MPNs. The first tier of this trial (Tier 1) is an intra-patient dose finding study in 12 patients that uses a low starting dose of vactosertib for all patients. Treatment dose is escalated according to prospectively-defined rules, and a toxicity and treatment effect algorithm during the period of 16 weeks (4 treatment cycles). If pre-established efficacy and safety endpoints are met, then Tier 1 of the study will be followed by a Tier 2 expansion study with an additional 25 patients for a period of 24 weeks (6 treatment cycles).

Vactosertib will be administered concurrently with the patient's current treatment (if any). Prior to enrollment, patients must be on a stable dose of their current therapy for 3 months prior to entering the study. Supportive care measures including packed red blood cell (PRBC) transfusions for HGB \<7g/dL, or symptomatic anemia, will be permitted. Administration of erythropoiesis stimulating agents (ESAs), however, will not be permitted on the trial (patients recruited would have serum EPO \>125 U/L above which the benefit of ESAs is not supported).