Allo-PBSCT as the First-line Treatment for Patients With the High-risk PTCL
This study is a single-center, single-arm, prospective phase II clinical trial that evaluates the efficacy and safety of allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in the treatment of high-risk peripheral T-cells lymphoma patients achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Conventional conditioning regimen is adopted while the reduced-intensity conditioning regimens will be preferred. Donor hematopoietic stem cell infusion is performed on day 0. All patients will undergo bone marrow examination on day 14 and day 28 post-transplant, followed by bone marrow examinations every 30 days within the first year after transplantation, and every 60 days within the second year after transplantation. Positron emission tomography with 2-deoxy-2-\[fluorine-18\]fluoro-D-glucose integrated with computed tomography (18F-FDG PET/CT) imaging will be performed every 6 months after transplantation. If disease relapse is suspected during the follow-up period, bone marrow and relapse site examinations will be conducted at any time. The primary study endpoints are the 1-year and 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) rates post-transplant. Secondary study endpoints include the incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) within 180 days post-transplant, cumulative relapse rates at 1 year and 2 years post-transplant, 1-year and 2-year overall survival (OS), graft-versus-host disease-free, relapse-free survival (GRFS), non-relapse mortality (NRM), cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD, and the incidence of Cytomegalovirus （CMV）and Epstein-Barr virus（EBV）reactivation within 1 year.
Peripheral T Cell Lymphoma
OTHER: allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
1y and 2y-progression-free survival (PFS), 1-year and 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) rates post-transplant, up to 1 years for the 1y-PFS and up to 2 years for the 2y-PFS
acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD), acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD) within 180 days post-transplant, up to 180 days|1y and 2y-cumulative relapse rates (CIR), cumulative relapse rates (CIR) at 1 year and 2 years post-transplant, up to 1 years for the 1y-CIR and up to 2 years for the 2y-CIR|1y and 2y-overall survival (OS), overall survival (OS) at 1 year and 2 years post-transplant, up to 1 years for the 1y-OS and up to 2 years for the 2y-OS|graft-versus-host disease-free and relapse-free survival (GRFS), graft-versus-host disease-free and relapse-free survival (GRFS) at 2 years post-transplant, up to 2 years|non-relapse mortality (NRM), non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 2 years post-transplant, up to 2 years|cumulative incidence of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD), cumulative incidence of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGVHD) at 2 years post-transplant, up to 2 years|Cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation, the incidence of CMV and EBV reactivation within 1 year, up to 1 year
This study is a single-center, single-arm, prospective phase II clinical trial that evaluates the efficacy and safety of allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in the treatment of high-risk peripheral T-cells lymphoma patients achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Conventional conditioning regimen is adopted while the reduced-intensity conditioning regimens will be preferred. Donor hematopoietic stem cell infusion is performed on day 0. All patients will undergo bone marrow examination on day 14 and day 28 post-transplant, followed by bone marrow examinations every 30 days within the first year after transplantation, and every 60 days within the second year after transplantation. Positron emission tomography with 2-deoxy-2-\[fluorine-18\]fluoro-D-glucose integrated with computed tomography (18F-FDG PET/CT) imaging will be performed every 6 months after transplantation. If disease relapse is suspected during the follow-up period, bone marrow and relapse site examinations will be conducted at any time. The primary study endpoints are the 1-year and 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) rates post-transplant. Secondary study endpoints include the incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) within 180 days post-transplant, cumulative relapse rates at 1 year and 2 years post-transplant, 1-year and 2-year overall survival (OS), graft-versus-host disease-free, relapse-free survival (GRFS), non-relapse mortality (NRM), cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD, and the incidence of Cytomegalovirus （CMV）and Epstein-Barr virus（EBV）reactivation within 1 year.