Venetoclax Plus Inotuzumab for B-ALL
This research study is evaluating the safety and efficacy of administering venetoclax and inotuzumab ozogamicin in combination in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL)

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Venetoclax
* Inotuzumab ozogamicin
* Dexamethasone
B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B-Cell Lymphoma|ALL
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Inotuzumab Ozogamicin
Maximum tolerated dose of venetoclax in combination with inotuzumab ozogamicin, Descriptive analysis of highest dose of venetoclax that did not cause a dose limiting toxicity with toxicity type based CTCAE vs 5.0 criteria., Enrollment to end of treatment up to 9 months
Morphologic response, Proportion of participants who achieve hematologic complete remission with 90% confidence intervals, Enrollment to end of treatment up to 9 months|Measurable residual disease (MRD)-response, Proportion of participants who become MRD-negative by multi-parameter flow cytometry with 90% confidence intervals, Enrollment to end of treatment up to 9 months|Event-free survival (EFS), Estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, Enrollment to end of treatment up to 9 months|Disease-free survival (DFS), Estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, Enrollment to end of treatment up to 9 months|Overall survival (OS)., Estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, Enrollment to end of treatment up to 9 months
This is a phase I study of venetoclax in combination with inotuzumab ozogamicin for the treatment of CD22-positive (CD22+) B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) and lymphoma (B-LBL), hereafter referred to as "ALL," in patients with disease relapsed from or refractory (R/R) to prior intensive chemotherapy.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved venetoclax for ALL but it has been approved for other uses. Venetoclax is an oral (pill) chemotherapy that works by blocking the action of certain proteins in cancer cells that help those cells survive.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved inotuzumab ozogamicin as a treatment option for ALL but not in combination with other drugs. Inotuzumab ozogamicin is an antibody-drug conjugate. An antibody-drug conjugate is a medication where a cancer drug (chemotherapy) is attached to an antibody, an immune system protein, that targets a specific protein on the cancer cell. Inotuzumab ozogamicin is combination of an antibody that targets the CD22 protein on ALL cells and calicheamicin, a chemotherapy compound that kills cancer cells. Once the antibody portion of inotuzumab ozogamicin binds to CD22 protein on cancer cells, the calicheamicin is released into the cell, where it damages the cancer cell's DNA and causes its death.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment for approximately 6-9 months depending on their response to the study treatment and followed for two years after completion of study.

It is expected that 20 to 32 people will take part in this research study.

Abbvie is supporting this research study by providing the study drug venetoclax and funding research tests and procedures.