Infliximab or Vedolizumab in Treating Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-Related Colitis in Patients With Genitourinary Cancer or Melanoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of infliximab and vedolizumab and to see how well they work in treating inflammation of the colon (colitis) caused by immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy in patients with cancer of the genital and urinary organs (genitourinary) or melanoma. Monoclonal antibodies, such as infliximab or vedolizumab, may help to treat immunotherapy induced colitis/diarrhea. This study may help to identify the optimal treatment strategy for immune checkpoint inhibitor-related colitis in patients with genitourinary cancer or melanoma.
Colitis|Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Malignant Genitourinary System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Infliximab|BIOLOGICAL: Vedolizumab
Clinical remission/response rate of immune-mediated colitis (IMC), The difference of the remission rate between standard of care (infliximab + corticosteroid) and the treatment with vedolizumab + corticosteroid will be calculated along with the 95% confidence interval., At 2 weeks after initiation of infliximab or vedolizumab with corticosteroid taper|Treatment-related adverse events, Will follow standard reporting guidelines for adverse events. Safety data will be summarized by category, severity and frequency., Within 3 months after initiation of infliximab or vedolizumab
Clinical remission/response rate of IMC, Will be estimated and compared between the two treatment arms using chi-square test., At 4 weeks after initiation of infliximab or vedolizumab with corticosteroid taper|Complete weaning of corticosteroid, Will be estimated and compared between the two treatment arms using chi-square test., Within 4 weeks after infliximab or vedolizumab initiation without rebound of IMC|Recurrent immune-related diarrhea/colitis, Will be estimated and compared between the two treatment arms using chi-square test., Within 3 months after corticosteroid taper
Endoscopic remission (Mayo Clinic sub-score 0-1) of immune-related diarrhea/colitis, Will be compared between the two treatment arms., At 4 and 8 weeks after initiation of infliximab or vedolizumab treatment|Histological remission (resolution of active inflammation) of immune-related diarrhea/colitis, Will be compared between the two treatment arms., At 8 weeks after initiation of infliximab or vedolizumab treatment|Time duration to achieve clinical remission/response, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons of the time-to-event endpoint by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests., From initiation of infliximab or vedolizumab treatment to clinical remission/response or last follow-up, assessed up to 3 months|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From the initiation of infliximab or vedolizumab treatment till death or last follow-up, assessed up to 3 months|Change in levels of cytokines in tissue/blood/stool samples, Will be compared using 2-sample t-test., Baseline up to 3 months after infliximab or vedolizumab treatment|Change in frequencies of immune cells in tissue/blood/stool samples, Will be compared using 2-sample t-test., Baseline up to 3 months after infliximab or vedolizumab treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the efficacy of infliximab and vedolizumab for clinical remission/response of immune-related diarrhea and/or colitis.

II. To assess the safety and tolerability of the treatment for immune-mediated diarrhea and/or colitis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of infliximab and vedolizumab for clinical remission/response of IMC at 4 weeks.

II. To assess the success of corticosteroid tapering. III. To measure the recurrence rate after corticosteroid taper.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of infliximab and vedolizumab to achieve endoscopic remission of immune-related diarrhea and/or colitis.

II. To assess the efficacy of infliximab and vedolizumab to achieve histological remission of immune-related diarrhea and/or colitis.

III. To assess the time duration to achieve the clinical remission/response. IV. To assess the long term outcome of cancer. V. To assess immunological, molecular and microbiome changes in tissue/blood/stool.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive infliximab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour once at week 0, 2, 6 for a total of 3 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive vedolizumab IV over 1 hour once at week 0, 2, 6 for a total of 3 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed up weekly for 1 month and then at 2 and 3 months after the treatment.