Let's Play! Healthy Kids After Cancer
This pilot study will evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and potential efficacy of a parent-targeted, phone-based program to prevent unhealthy weight gain and improve biomarkers of oxidative stress and inflammation among childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia survivors.
Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|Obesity
BEHAVIORAL: Phone Coaching Program
Feasibility: Number of participants who complete 8 of 10 intervention sessions, Measured by intervention session completion rates., 6 months|Retention: Number of participants who complete 6-month outcome assessments, Measured by completion of the 6-month outcome assessment., 6 months|Acceptability: Number of participants who report high satisfaction with the intervention, Measured by parent survey of satisfaction with intervention materials and sessions., 6 months
Change in children's physical activity, Measured by ActiGraph accelerometers, 6 months|Change in children's dietary intake, Measured by Nutrition Data System for Research (NDSR) interview, 6 months|Change in children's BMI, Staff-measured height and weight, 6 months|Change in children's biomarker outcome measures, Measured by serum blood samples, 6 months|Change in children's energy level, Measured by questionnaire: PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale, 6 months
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood cancer, accounting for 25% of all childhood malignancies. Treatment of childhood ALL has a high success rate, with long-term event-free survival of \>85%. Treatment success, however, has not come without cost. Recognition of long-term health problems related to childhood cancer therapies is growing. Both during and after therapy, children treated for ALL are at risk for fatigue, reduced physical activity, poor dietary intake, and excessive weight gain, which are driven by physiological (chemotherapy-induced) changes and social (home/environmental) factors. The goals of this pilot study are to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and potential efficacy of a parent-targeted, phone-delivered nutrition and physical activity program to prevent unhealthy weight gain among 60 childhood ALL survivors, 4-10 years of age. Participants will be randomly assigned to either the phone-delivered parent-targeted nutrition and physical activity intervention or a standard-of-care control group. Intervention success will be benchmarked by changes in key weight-related behaviors (physical activity and dietary intake) over the 6-month trial, and initial impact of the intervention on biomarkers of inflammation and oxidative stress, fatigue, and body composition will be examined.