Clinical Trial of the ATM-Inhibitor WSD0628 in Combination With Radiation Therapy for Recurrent Brain Tumors
The purpose of this study is to test WSD0628 in combination with radiation therapy for recurrent brain tumors.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: WSD0628
Determine the maximum tolerated dose of WSD0628 in combination with radiation therapy for patients with recurrent high-grade glioma., Use Bayesian Optimal Interval (BOIN) design to inform dose escalation and de-escalation decisions and to ultimately determine the maximum tolerated dose level (MTD) of WSD0628 in patient population., 4 weeks after last day of RT (up to 60 days)|Determine the recommended phase 2 dose of WSD0628 in combination with radiation therapy for patients with recurrent high-grade glioma., Evaluate biologic activity measures using rank-based desirability scores (RDS) generated for each of the dose levels to identify which of these scores best when looking jointly at toxicity and biologic activity. The rank-based desirability scores (RDS) for this BOIN12 design will be used to help identify the best dose, 4 weeks after last day of RT (up to 60 days)
Measure the incidence of acute adverse effects related to WSD0628 delivered concurrently with radiation, All AEs must be documented in the subject's medical record, 4 weeks after last day of RT (up to 60 days)|Assess anti-tumor activity of WSD0628 delivered concurrently with radiation, including intracranial overall response rate (ORR), Overall response rate defined as the proportion of patients who achieve a partial response (PR) or a complete response (CR) divided by the total number of patients who received therapy. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the overall response rate will be calculated., 4 weeks after last day of RT (up to 60 days)|Assess anti-tumor activity of WSD0628 delivered concurrently with radiation, including progression-free survival (PFS), The primary measure of response will be by serial measures of the product of the two largest cross-sectional diameters (bidirectional product) using the RANO and iRANO criteria., Beginning of study therapy until the first occurrence of progression or death|Assess anti-tumor activity of WSD0628 delivered concurrently with radiation, including volumetric change in tumor size, measured by MRI/CT scan evaluations, Beginning of study therapy until the first occurrence of progression or death
High grade gliomas are the most common primary brain tumor in adults. Despite aggressive treatment including surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation, these tumors have a dismal prognosis. Following a radiation therapy, almost 80% of them recur locally. The focus of this project is the development of a radiation sensitizer (a small molecule ATM inhibitor, WSD0628) with the goal to enhance the efficacy of radiation therapy. The first step will be to establish a pre-clinical PK→PD→efficacy model to describe WSD0628 plasma and tumor concentrations associated with robust ATM inhibition and radiosensitizing effects. This model will be instrumental in interpreting the pharmacokinetic (PK) data and dosage selection in the proposed first-in-human, Phase 1, open-label, multicenter, single-arm, dose-escalation, and dose-expansion study in approximately 42 adult patients with recurrent high-grade glioma. The aims of the study are to assess the safety, tolerability, PKs and preliminary anti-tumor activity of WSD0628 in combination with radiation therapy. The dose-escalation portion of the study (Part A) will enroll approximately 24 patients and is comprised of Bayesian Optimal Interval (BOIN) design with target toxicity rate of 22%-33%. Once the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) is established, Part B of the study will commence in which an additional 12 patients will be enrolled and treated at the RP2D for further evaluation of safety and efficacy (standard expansion cohort), and an additional 6 patients will have a tissue evaluation of tumor penetrance after a one-time dose of study drug prior to radiosurgery and surgical resection (Phase 0, tumor penetrance cohort). Tumor response will be assessed, using brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with assessment based on the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria, and safety will include analysis of adverse events (AEs) and laboratory data. Additionally, PK, pharmacodynamic (PD), overall survival, progression-free survival, overall response rate, and patient-reported outcomes will be evaluated. The maximum duration of Part A will be 32 months and Part B,12 months. Funding Source - FDA OOPD