Testing the Use of Ado-Trastuzumab Emtansine Compared to the Usual Treatment (Chemotherapy With Docetaxel Plus Trastuzumab) or Trastuzumab Deruxtecan for Recurrent, Metastatic, or Unresectable HER2-Expressing Salivary Gland Cancers
This phase II trial compares the effect of usual treatment of docetaxel chemotherapy plus trastuzumab, to ado-emtansine (T-DM1) in patients with HER2-postive salivary gland cancer that has come back (recurrent), that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body, or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). This trial is also testing how well trastuzumab deruxtecan works in treating patients with HER2-low recurrent or metastatic salivary gland cancer. Trastuzumab is a form of targeted therapy because it works by attaching itself to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as HER2 receptors. When trastuzumab attaches to HER2 receptors, the signals that tell the cells to grow are blocked and the cancer cell may be marked for destruction by body's immune system. Trastuzumab emtansine contains trastuzumab, linked to a chemotherapy drug called emtansine. Trastuzumab attaches to HER2 positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers emtansine to kill them. Trastuzumab deruxtecan is a monoclonal antibody called traztuzumab, linked to a chemotherapy drug called deruxtecan. Trastuzumab is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as HER2 receptors and delivers deruxtecan to kill them. Docetaxel is in a class of medications called taxanes. It stops cancer cells from growing and dividing and may kill them. Trastuzumab emtansine may work better compared to usual treatment of chemotherapy with docetaxel and trastuzumab or trastuzumab deruxtecan in treating patients with recurrent, metastatic or unresectable salivary gland cancer.
Metastatic Salivary Gland Carcinoma|Recurrent Salivary Gland Carcinoma|Stage III Major Salivary Gland Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Major Salivary Gland Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Salivary Gland Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Docetaxel|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Deruxtecan|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Emtansine
Progression free survival (PFS) (HER2-Positive Cohort), Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate PFS rates. A log-rank test will be used to assess whether trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) shows a signal of better PFS than the control arm. Cox proportional hazards models, including the stratification factors and with/out other key covariates (e.g., Zubrod performance status), will be used to estimate the treatment effect hazard ratio along with 80% and 95% confidence intervals., From randomization to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Objective response rate (ORR) (HER2-Low Expressing Cohort), Overall tumor response in patients will be assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved the best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). NOTE: For an individual patient, BOR is the best response (in the order of CR, PR, stable disease \[SD\], and progressive disease \[PD\]). Summary statistics of the ORR posterior distribution and 95% credible intervals will also be provided., From the start of treatment up to a year or until the progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity, physician discretion to discontinue treatment, or patient withdrawal of consent, whichever occurs first.), assessed up to 5 yeats
ORR (HER2-Positive Cohort), Overall tumor response in patients will be assessed according to RECIST 1.1. Only randomized patients who have measurable disease present at baseline will be considered evaluable for response. The ORR, defined as the proportion of complete and partial best overall responses (CR+PR) will be calculated with their respective 80% and 95% confidence intervals (CI) based normal approximations., Up to 5 years|Duration of response (DOR) (HER2-Positive Cohort), If the number of responders is sufficient, the Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the DOR rates along with median of DOR and 95% CIs., From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS) (HER2-Positive Cohort), OS rates will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and between-arms comparison will be performed using a logrank test (0.10 one-sided significance level). Cox proportional hazards models with the stratification factors and with/out other key covariates (e.g., Zubrod performance status) will be used to estimate the treatment effect hazard ratio along with 80% and 95% confidence intervals., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (HER2-Positive Cohort), Adverse events (AEs) will be graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0. Counts of all adverse events (AEs) by grade will be provided by treatment arm. Counts and frequencies will be provided for the worst grade AE experienced by the patient by treatment arm. The proportion of patients with at least one grade 3 or higher AE will be compared between the treatment arms. All comparisons will be tested using a chi-Square test, or Fisher's exact test if cell frequencies are \< 5, with a significance level of 0.10. In addition, 80% and 95% confidence intervals will be provided for these proportions., Up to 30 days from last study treatment dose|Treatment discontinuations due to AEs (HER2-Positive Cohort), The proportion of treatment discontinuations due to adverse events between arms will be compared using a chi-Square test (two-sided alpha of 0.10). In addition, 80% and 95% confidence intervals will be provided for these proportions. A two-group chi-square test with a 10% two-sided significance level will have 90% power to detect the difference between Arm 2 proportion of 0.15 and Arm 1 proportion of 0.40 (odds ratio of 3.8) when the number of randomized patients in each group is 58. These figures are reasonable based on data from breast cancer trials (40.9% versus \[vs.\] 7.2% for docetaxel plus trastuzumab \[TH\] and T-DM1 alone)., Up to 5 years|Patient-reported toxicity (HER2-Positive Cohort), Patient-reported adverse events will be assessed using selected PRO-CTCAE., Up to 5 years|OS (HER2-Low Expressing Cohort), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and 95% pointwise confidence intervals for 1-year rates will be calculated using the log-log transformation., Time from treatment initiation to death of any cause, assessed up to 5 years|PFS (HER2-Low Expressing Cohort), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and 95% pointwise confidence intervals for 1-year rates will be calculated using the log-log transformation., Time from treatment initiation to disease progression or death of any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (HER2-Low Expressing Cohort), AEs will be graded using CTCAE v5.0. Counts of all AEs by grade will be provided. Counts and frequencies will be provided for the worst grade AE experienced by the patient. The proportion of patients with at least one grade 3 or higher AE will be summarized., Up to 5 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR) for patients who receive crossover treatment to T-DM1/TH following disease progression on the TH/T-DM1 arm, Overall tumor response will be assessed by RECIST v1.1 (see Section 13). The ORR, defined as the proportion of complete and partial responses (CR+PR) for patients who crossover after disease progression from T-DM1 (TH) to TH (T-DM1) will be calculated with their respective 80% and 95% CIs., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if trastuzumab emtansine (ado-trastuzumab emtansine \[T-DM1\]) shows better progression-free survival (PFS) when compared to docetaxel plus trastuzumab (TH) in recurrent and/or metastatic (R/M) HER2-positive salivary gland cancer (SGC) patients who have not previously received HER2 therapy for unresectable or recurrent and/or metastatic disease, as determined by local assessment. (HER2-Positive Cohort) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 criteria with DS-8201a (trastuzumab deruxtecan) in R/M HER2-low expressing SGC patients. (HER2-Low Expressing Cohort)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the overall response rate (ORR) by RECIST v1.1 criteria between arms. (HER2-Positive Cohort) II. To compare overall survival (OS) between arms. (HER2-Positive Cohort) III. To compare toxicity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 criteria between arms. (HER2-Positive Cohort) IV. To assess patient-reported toxicity, as measured by the patient reported outcome (PRO)-CTCAE, between arms, and explore patient-reported symptomatic adverse events (AEs) for tolerability of each treatment arm as measured by the PRO-CTCAE. (HER2-Positive Cohort) V. To assess PFS with DS-8201a (trastuzumab deruxtecan) in HER2-low expressing SGC patients. (HER2-Low Expressing Cohort) VI. To assess OS with DS-8201a (trastuzumab deruxtecan) in HER2-low expressing SGC patients. (HER2-Low Expressing Cohort) VII. To evaluate toxicity of DS-8201a (trastuzumab deruxtecan) using CTCAE v5.0. (HER2-Low Expressing Cohort)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the ORR in patients who receive crossover treatment to T-DM1/TH following disease progression on the TH arm/T-DM1 arm.

II. To collect blood and tissue specimens for future translational science studies to examine how tumor genetics, HER2 signaling output/expression, HER2 tumoral heterogeneity, and androgen receptor expression/signaling impacts H and T-DM1 efficacy in the HER2-positive cohort and DS-8201a (trastuzumab deruxtecan) efficacy in the HER2-low expressing cohort.

OUTLINE: Patients with HER2-positive disease are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. Patients with HER2-low expression disease are assigned to Arm III.

ARM I: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive trastuzumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients on Arm I (TH) can cross over to Arm II (T-DM1) after first progression. Patients undergo a computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study, as well as a biopsy during screening.

ARM II: Patients receive trastuzumab emtansine IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients on Arm II (T-DM1) can cross over to Arm I (TH) after first progression. Patients undergo a CT scan or MRI and ECHO or MUGA scan throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection and during screening and on study, as well as a biopsy during screening.

ARM III: Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo a CT scan or MRI and ECHO or MUGA scan throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection and during screening and on study, as well as a biopsy during screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for an additional 3-5 years, then annually.