Phase I Study of Percutaneous Valrubicin for Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to learn more about how well the drug valrubicin (VALSTAR®) works to help treat the patient's cancer when administered through a nephrostomy tube inserted through their back into their kidney. The study is also being done to determine how safe and easy it is to tolerate valrubicin at specific dose levels, as well as the way in which the drug is eliminated from the human body (Pharmacokinetics or PK).
Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Valrubicin
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), To define the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) in a multiple dose regimen of valrubicin administered through a percutaneous nephrostomy tube placed following endoscopic resection (percutaneous or ureteroscopic) of UTUC, 12 months
Number of Participants with Recurrence Free Survival (RFS), To evaluate the landmark (1 year) recurrence free survival (RFS). Recurrence is defined as any tumor recurrence in the upper tract following initiation of percutaneous valrubicin., 12 months|Number of Participants with Progression Free Survival (PFS), To evaluate the landmark (1 year) progression free survival (PFS) post valrubicin treatment. Progression is defined as a tumor recurrence in the upper tract of higher clinical stage and/or higher tumor grade following initiation of percutaneous valrubicin., 12 months
Eligible patients will receive percutaneous valrubicin beginning no sooner than 10 days following nephrostomy placement and within 6 weeks of tumor treatment/resection. Therapy will be administered at one of three dose levels in a 3 + 3 design (200 mg/75 ml diluent, 400 mg/75 ml diluent or 800 mg/75 ml diluent). It is anticipated that at least 3 patients will be accrued at both of the 200 and 400 mg dose levels. Assuming acceptable toxicity, the accrual target for the 800 mg dose level will be 9 patients. If the maximum tolerated dose is determined to be 200 mg or 400 mg, expansion to 9 patients will occur at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) dose level. Drug will be administered on a weekly basis for 8 total treatments.