Effect of EHealth Coaching Program on Patient Reported Outcomes of Men With Prostate Cancer
This trial studies the effect of an eHealth coaching program (PACK Health) on patient reported outcomes of men with prostate cancer. An electronic health support program may affect prostate cancer patients' reported side effects and outcomes of care.
Prostate Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
Model trajectories of men who participate in eHealth program, Summary statistics and box plots will also be used to describe Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) (1.2) and other inventory scores and subscale scores by cohort and assessment time. A linear mixed effects model will be used to assess PROMIS (version 1.2) (and scores over time). The models will include assessment time, treatment and a treatment by time interaction as fixed effects and intercept as a random effect., Up to 3 months|The number of emergency room visits, A generalized linear mixed model (GLMM) using a log link function will be used to model the number of emergency room visits. Generalized linear mixed Tobit models will be used if the data are found to be zero-inflated., Baseline through day 90|Number of hospital admissions, A GLMM using a log link function will be used to model the number of emergency room visits. Generalized linear mixed Tobit models will be used if the data are found to be zero-inflated., Baseline through day 90
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To model the trajectory of patient reported outcomes (PROs), as measured by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Global Health Scale (version \[v\]1.2), among men newly diagnosed with prostate cancer who are engaged in either active surveillance or active treatment, while enrolled in an e-health coaching program.

Ia. To compare the trajectories of (PROs) between men who are engaged in either active surveillance or active treatment, while enrolled in an e-health coaching program.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of digital health coaching program on:

Ia. Physical and mental health of men newly diagnosed with prostate cancer as measured by the subscales of the PROMIS Global Health Scale (v 1.2).

Ib. The global health outcomes of men with prostate cancer who are in active treatment by active treatment type (i.e. surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, or a combination of these methodologies).

Ic. The symptom experience of men newly diagnosed with prostate cancer as measured by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI).

Id. The frequency of emergency room visits and hospital admissions for patients receiving treatment in the ambulatory setting.

II. To evaluate the relationship between financial toxicity, as measured by the Consumer Score for Financial Toxicity (COST), and quality of life, as measured by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite for Clinical Practice (EPIC-CP).

OUTLINE:

Patients are contacted once weekly by a health coach by text message, phone call, email, or a mobile application, for 3 months. The total time interacting with the health coach is about 3.5-4.5 hours across the study. Patients also complete surveys over 30 minutes each time at baseline and every 30 days for 3 months.