Breast Cup Immobilization Device II (GCC 1047)
The study is designed to assess the accuracy of patient breast reproducibly using the revised BCID. This study would provide data for target verification and quality assurance to eventually allow treatment of breast cancer patients for either a TBB or accelerated partial breast irradiation. The BCID is a low-risk device similar to immobilization devices used routinely in radiotherapy for other disease sites.
Breast Cancer
Breast Cup Immobilization Device II (GCC 1047) Feasibility, Complete clinical feasibility of using a breast cup immobilization device for prone breast irradiation in terms of both geometric and dosimetric accuracy. Measurements were able to be completed on 25 participants through treatment planning CT scans., One year
Breast Cup Immobilization Device II (GCC 1047) Comfort, Assess patient comfort while wearing the breast cup immobilization device. Patients provided questionnaire to rate comfort level (discomfort was ranked from 0 (no pain) to 5 (very painful)., One year|Number of Participants That Were Favorable Candidates for Receiving GammaPod Treatment, Candidates being assessed based on their breast size, tumor or tumor bed size, tumor or tumor bed location and normal tissue proximity by evaluating GammaPod treatment plans developed using the acquired CT images. Through images, patients were evaluated for their ability to meet the requirements for GammaPod treatment based off the factors mentioned previously., 1 year
Breast conserving therapy (BCT) has become the standard of care for treating early-stage breast cancers based on six prospective randomized trials with 20 years of follow-up data (Fisher). During lumpectomy, the surgeon removes the tumor and a surrounding rim of normal tissue (margin), leaving surgical clips to help designate the resection bed. Radiation treatment is directed at the whole breast for 5 1/2 weeks and is generally followed by a 1-2 week boost directed at the lumpectomy site plus a margin of normal breast tissue. The benefit of adding the tumor bed boost, (TBB) has been shown in two studies to decrease local failures \[Romestaig; Bartelink\].

Studies have evaluated the role of radiation following lumpectomy in very select groups which have not been able to define a group who do not benefit from the addition of radiotherapy. In the group of patients who received surgery alone, 85% of the breast recurrences occurred in the tumor bed. Due to these two facts, radiotherapy directed only at the tumor bed has been evaluated. Treating this smaller tumor volume has allowed higher doses of radiation to be delivered safely shortening the treatment course from 6-7 weeks to one week.