Metacognitive Strategy Training in Cancer-related Cognitive Impairment
The first aim of this study is to determine the feasibility of delivering CO-OP remotely to breast cancer survivors, who self-report cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI), in preparation for a future R01 trial. The second aim of this study is to assess the effect of CO-OP on activity performance, subjective and objective cognition, and quality of life in a sample of breast cancer survivors who self-report CRCI. The research team hypothesizes that effect size estimations will indicate that CO-OP will have a greater positive effect, compared to attention control, on activity performance, subjective and objective cognition, and quality of life in a sample of breast cancer survivors who self-report CRCI.
Breast Cancer Female
BEHAVIORAL: CO-OP Procedures|BEHAVIORAL: Attention Control Procedures
Telehealth Usability Questionnaire (TUQ), Measure of telehealth usability from participant's perspective. Specifically, the TUQ measures usefulness and utility of technologies including usefulness, ease of use, effectiveness, reliability, and satisfaction. The TUQ uses a self-report Likert scale of 1 (disagree) to 7 (agree)., After study completion, an average of 14 weeks|Acceptability of Intervention Measure (AIM), Measure of intervention acceptability. Self-report Likert scale of 1 (completely disagree) to 5 (completely agree), After study completion, an average of 14 weeks|Intervention Appropriateness Measure (IAM), Measure of intervention appropriateness. Self-report Likert scale of 1 (completely disagree) to 5 (completely agree), After study completion, an average of 14 weeks|Feasibility of Intervention Measure (FIM), Measure of intervention feasibility. Self-report Likert scale of 1 (completely disagree) to 5 (completely agree), After study completion, an average of 14 weeks|Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM) Trained Goal Performance, Self-report measure of activity performance. Minimum = 1, Maximum = 10. Higher scores mean better performance., Pre-intervention (week 0) and post-intervention (week 14)|NeuroQoL Cognitive Function Short Form, Self-report measure of cognitive ability in daily life activity. Maximum = 5 (never), Minimum = 1 (Very often/several times per day). The total raw score range is 8-40. The t-score is reported with a mean of 50 and standard deviation of 10. Higher scores mean fewer perceived cognitive challenges., Pre-intervention (week 0) and post-intervention (week 14)|Canadian Occupational Performance Measure (COPM) Trained Goal Satisfaction, Self-report measure of satisfaction level with activity performance. Minimum = 1, Maximum = 10. Higher scores mean higher satisfaction., After study completion, an average of 14 weeks
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B), Self-report measure of quality of life for breast cancer survivors. Domains include questions related to physical, emotional, social, and functional well-being, as well as additional concerns. Minimum = 0 (not at all), Maximum = 4 (very much). The range of scores is 0 to 148. Higher scores indicate decreased perceived well-being and quality of life., Pre-intervention (week 0) and post-intervention (week 14)|Delis-Kaplan Executive Function System (DKEFS)- Color-Word Interference Subtest, Objective measure of inhibition and cognitive flexibility. Data are presented for condition 4 of Number/Letter switching. Age-adjusted scale scores with a mean of 10 and standard deviation of 3 are reported. The total range of scores is 1-19. Higher scores indicate better performance., Pre-intervention (week 0) and post-intervention (week 14)|Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS)-IV Letter-Number, Coding, Symbol Search Subtest, Objective measure of cognitive performance. The Letter-Number subtest measures working memory. The Coding and Symbol Search subtest measure processing speed. Higher scores indicate better cognitive performance. Age adjusted scaled scores with a mean of 10 and standard deviation of 3 are reported. Range of reported scores is 1 to 19., Pre-intervention (week 0) and post-intervention (week 14)|Brief Visuospatial Memory Test -Revised Trial 1, Objective measure of episodic memory. Participant is presented with six geometric figures for 10 seconds on three different occasions, and then asked to draw the six figures on a separate sheet of paper in the correct order. Increased errors may indicate challenges with episodic memory. T-scores are reported with a mean of 50 and standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate better performance., Pre-intervention (week 0) and post-intervention (week 14)|Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test, Objective measure of working memory. Participant is presented with single digits every 2 seconds and asked to add each digit to the one immediately prior to it. Total score is out of 60 points, with increased errors indicating challenges with working memory., Pre-intervention (week 0) and post-intervention (week 14)|Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Ability to Participate in Social Roles and Activities, Self-report measure of ability to participate in social roles and activities. Higher scores reflect higher abilities. T-scores are reported with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10., Pre-intervention (week 0) and post-intervention (week 14)
Breast cancer survivors often self-report cognitive changes after treatment for cancer (e.g. cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI)). These cognitive changes have a devastating impact on everyday life activities, such as work/productivity, community involvement, driving, and financial management. While CRCI would likely be amenable to rehabilitation services, breast cancer survivors face two primary barriers to adequate rehabilitation, including (1) inadequate access to rehabilitation services, and (2) limited effective interventions to address CRCI.

Breast cancer survivors have inadequate access to rehabilitation services to address CRCI. A recent report sponsored by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) concluded that most NCI-designated cancer centers do not have integrated cancer rehabilitation services. Even if comprehensive rehabilitation services were provided by these centers, millions of cancer survivors live in rural areas outside close proximity to a cancer center and are more likely to experience poorer outcomes compared to urban counterparts. If rehabilitation services were provided, proximity to facilities may be a limiting factor in individuals from rural communities receiving rehabilitative care. Access to services has been further curtailed amid the COVID-19 pandemic, with calls building from national organizations for improvements in remote delivery of services.

Metacognitive strategy training (MCST) is a practice standard to address cognitive impairment in other conditions, such as traumatic brain injury and stroke. The Cognitive-Orientation to daily Occupational Performance (CO-OP) approach is a MCST intervention in which subjects are taught a general cognitive strategy that can be applied in known and novel contexts to devise task specific strategies to engage in an activity. The investigators' preliminary data suggest that CO-OP may have a positive impact on activity performance, subjective and objective cognition, and quality of life in breast cancer survivors with CRCI. While current evidence supports the remote delivery of strategy-based interventions like CO-OP, this intervention has not been evaluated in breast cancer survivors with CRCI.

The investigators' overall research hypothesis is that CO-OP can feasibly be administered remotely and will improve activity performance, subjective and objective cognition, and subjective quality of life in breast cancer survivors with CRCI.