First in Human Trial of Topical VT30 in Pts With Venous/Lymphatic Malformations Assoc With PIK3CA or TEK Gene Mutations
VT30-101 is a 2-part first-in-human trial of topically administered VT30 to subjects with cutaneous venous malformations, lymphatic malformations, or mixed venolymphatic malformations associated with PIK3CA or TEK mutations.

Part 1 is a 4-week treatment, open-label, 4-sequence, escalating repeat-application cohort study, with intra-subject and inter-cohort dose escalation.

Part 2 is a 12-week treatment, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, safety and exploratory efficacy study. Part 2 will be initiated only after the successful completion of Part 1 with results that demonstrate the general safety and tolerability of topically applied VT30. Up to 12 subjects who complete Part 1 may be enrolled into Part 2 of the study.

The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of VT30. The study will also determine the dose and regimen of VT30 to be carried into Part 2 of the protocol. Other aims include documenting plasma drug levels of VT30 and VT10 and, on an exploratory basis, examining pharmacologic target engagement and change in potential efficacy readouts.
Venous Malformation|Lymphatic Malformation|Venolymphatic Malformation
DRUG: VT30
Evaluation of safety and tolerability, Composite of adverse events and changes in physical exam findings, vital signs, lab tests, and electrocardiogram evaluations, From pre-treatment to 4 weeks of treatment
Maximum feasible dose / maximum tolerable dose, The MTD or MFD strength will be determined based on results from Part 1, and will inform the dose strength to be used in Part 2, From pre-treatment to 4 weeks|Tissue and serum drug levels, Plasma levels of VT30 and VT10 will be assessed following topical administration of VT30 to determine level of systemic exposure, From pre-treatment to 4 weeks
Maximum tissue concentration of study drug, As assessed by treated lesion tissue levels of phosphoproteins, as an indicator of local target engagement, From pre-treatment to 4 weeks|Changes in Pain, Assessed by subjects' self-reporting their pain, related to the treated lesion, on a Numerical Rating Scale, From pre-treatment to 4 weeks|Changes in lesion, Assessed by change in appearance of the treated lesion, From pre-treatment to 4 weeks|Changes in management of lesion bleeding, oozing, or discharge, Assessed by subject-reported difficulty managing bleeding, oozing, or discharge from the treated lesion, From pre-treatment to 4 weeks
VT30-101 is designed as a Phase 1/2, first-in-human study of topically administered VT30 to subjects with cutaneous venous malformations (VMs), lymphatic malformations (LMs), or mixed venolymphatic malformations (VLMs) associated with phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic alpha polypeptide (PIK3CA) or tyrosine receptor kinase (TEK) mutations. Capillary involvement and/or extension of the lesion into subcutaneous tissues is permitted.

The study will occur in 2 parts, and in both study parts, subjects will participate in a Screening Period (up to 6 weeks) before beginning the indicated Treatment Period.

Part 1 will be an open-label, 4-sequence, escalating repeat-application study comprised of up to 4 cohorts (3 subjects per cohort, with 3 up to 6 in Cohort 4, or the final Part 1 cohort). In each cohort, subjects will be given topical VT30 for a 4-week Treatment Period. Subjects will begin treatment with the designated dose on Day 1. After 2 weeks, the Investigator will examine the treated surface area and determine if the formulation is tolerated such that the subject may apply the next dose strength of VT30 gel for the remaining duration of the Treatment Period.

Specifically, the following gel dose strengths (concentrations) are planned for Cohorts 1 through 3 in Part 1:

* Cohort 1: initiate dosing with 0.12% (w/w) gel and progress to 0.6% (w/w) gel for the final 2 weeks of the Part 1 Treatment Period (if the lower dose is tolerated)
* Cohort 2: initiate dosing with 0.6% (w/w) gel and progress to 1.2% (w/w) gel for the final 2 weeks of the Part 1 Treatment Period (if the lower dose is tolerated)
* Cohort 3: initiate dosing with 1.2% (w/w) gel and progress to 2.3% (w/w) gel for the final 2 weeks of the Part 1 Treatment Period (if the lower dose is tolerated)

A Safety Review Committee (SRC), with sponsor, investigator and independent medical representation, will provide oversight and guidance for study conduct. After 3 subjects have been dosed for at least 21 days in any of the first three Part 1 cohorts, the SRC may request additional data, approve initiation of the subsequent cohort, or mandate that additional subjects to be enrolled at either the higher or lower dose within the cohort.

After 9 subjects in Cohorts 1 through 3 (3 subjects per cohort) have completed the 4-week Treatment Period, the SRC will determine if additional subjects should be assigned to Cohort 4 (or the final Part 1 cohort) to receive the MTD (maximum tolerated dose) or MFD (maximum feasible dose) strength of VT30. Subjects in Cohort 4 will receive the designated dose strength and regimen of VT30 for a full 4 weeks.

Following the completion of Cohort 4 in Part 1, the SRC will determine whether to authorize initiation of Part 2 and will confirm the dose level and regimen to be administered in Part 2.

Part 2 will be a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study containing 36 subjects assigned in a 2:1 ratio to receive either VT30 or placebo. Up to 12 subjects who complete Part 1 may enroll in Part 2, provided they meet all Part 2-specific inclusion criteria with no applicable exclusions.

After the first 12 subjects in Part 2 have completed 4 weeks of treatment, the SRC will conduct a review of blinded safety data to confirm no revisions or changes are needed to the protocol. Subsequent reviews may also be conducted to ensure continued acceptable safety and tolerability.

After subjects complete their designated Treatment Period (in Part 1 or Part 2), they will participate in a 4-week post treatment Follow-up Period.