Rivaroxaban for the Prevention of Venous Thromboembolism in Asian Patients With Cancer
Rivaroxaban has been developed in the various clinical settings, prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE)after major orthopedic surgery, prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation, and in the treatment of acute coronary syndromes. And, in the EINSTEIN-pulmonary embolism (PE) and EINSTEIN-deep venous thrombosis (DVT) programs, rivaroxaban showed non-inferior to standard therapy for the treatment of PE and DVT. However, there has been limited experience of rivaroxaban with secondary VTE prophylaxis in cancer patients. Although cancer-associated DVT or PE was included in previously mentioned EINSTEIN programs, only approximately 5% of the total populations were cancer patients in these studies. Thus, investigators could not automatically translate the results of these studies into the real practice management of cancer-associated VTE patients. Moreover, until now, new oral anticoagulants, including dabigatran and rivaroxaban, have been compared to long-term warfarin therapy, which were well-known inferior agent, but not low molecular weight heparin. In this sense, investigators feel that new oral anticoagulants, particularly rivaroxaban, should be re-investigated in this highly specific patients group. Therefore, investigators are planning to conduct a prospective study evaluating the efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban in Korean patients with cancer-associated VTE.
Rivaroxaban|Cancer-associated Thrombosis|Recurrence|Bleeding
DRUG: Rivaroxaban
recurrent symptomatic deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism or both, Recurrent DVT will be defined if a new onset non-compressibility of a previously compressible venous segment on ultrasonography is identified or if there is a new constant intraluminal filling defect on venography. Unequivocal extension of the thrombus will be needed to diagnose the recurrence on the same extremity of the first event unless new concomitant PE or DVT in other extremities is confirmed.

Recurrent PE will be diagnosed by high probability on ventilation/perfusion lung scan, or by the presence of non-enhancing filling defects in the pulmonary vasculature on pulmonary CT angiogram., within the six months after the diagnosis of index VTE
incidentally detected VTE, Incidentally detected recurrent thrombosis will be defined as objectively-proven thrombosis during the study period by imaging studies that are performed for reasons other than suspected VTE., within six months after the diagnosis of VTE|Major or clinically relevant non-major bleedings, Major bleeding will be defined if it is associated with death, occurs at critical sites (intracranial, intraspinal, intraocular, retroperitoneal, or pericardial area), and results in a need for a transfusion of at least 2 units of packed red cells, or lead to a drop in hemoglobin of more than 2 g/dL.

Clinically relevant non-major bleeding will be defined as relevant bleeding that did not meet the criteria for major bleeding but is associated with medical intervention, unscheduled visit, interruption or discontinuation of a study drug, or discomfort or impairment of activities of daily life, within six months after the diagnosis of VTE|recurrent VTE according to the risk of clinical prediction rule, Risk of recurrent VTE can be differentiated by risk prediction rule, named Ottawa score. Ottawa score is composed of gender, primary tumor site, stage, and prior VTE and ranged between -3 and 3 score points. Patients with a score \<1 will be considered as having low risk for recurrence and patients with a score \>1 considered as having high risk for recurrence., within six months after the diagnosis of VTE
Rivaroxaban has been developed in the various clinical settings, prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE)after major orthopedic surgery, prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation, and in the treatment of acute coronary syndromes. And, in the EINSTEIN-pulmonary embolism (PE) and EINSTEIN-deep venous thrombosis (DVT) programs, rivaroxaban showed non-inferior to standard therapy for the treatment of PE and DVT. However, there has been limited experience of rivaroxaban with secondary VTE prophylaxis in cancer patients. Although cancer-associated DVT or PE was included in previously mentioned EINSTEIN programs, only approximately 5% of the total populations were cancer patients in these studies. Thus, investigators could not automatically translate the results of these studies into the real practice management of cancer-associated VTE patients. Moreover, until now, new oral anticoagulants, including dabigatran and rivaroxaban, have been compared to long-term warfarin therapy, which were well-known inferior agent, but not low molecular weight heparin. In this sense, investigators feel that new oral anticoagulants, particularly rivaroxaban, should be re-investigated in this highly specific patients group. Therefore, investigators are planning to conduct a prospective study evaluating the efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban in Korean patients with cancer-associated VTE.