Study of VELCADE and Rituximab in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to determine if the combination of VELCADE and rituximab improves progression free survival relative to rituximab alone in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) who never received rituximab or who have previously responded to rituximab. This is an international study being conducted in the United States and in many countries around the world. A complete list of study locations is listed below.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Bortezomib + Rituximab|DRUG: Rituximab
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as time from randomization to progressive disease or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Subjects are followed until progressive disease/death or the end of the study. The median follow up time is 33.9 months.
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate is defined as Complete Response (CR) + Complete Response Unconfirmed (CRu) + Partial Response (PR) using International Working Group Criteria (IWGC) and Independent Radiographic Review results and clinical results. The IWGC CR requires complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms, and normalization of lactic dehydrogenase and bone marrow involvement. CRu requires more than 75% reduction in sum of product of nodes (SPD). PR requires moer than 50% reduction in SPD., Subjects are followed until progressive disease/death or the end of the study. The median follow up time is 33.9 months.
The purpose of this study is to determine if the combination of VELCADE and rituximab improves progression free survival relative to rituximab alone in patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) who never received rituximab or who have previously responded to rituximab. This is an international study being conducted in the United States and in many countries around the world. A complete list of study locations is listed below.