Safety and Efficacy of Inhaled Cannabis For the Uncontrolled Pain Relief in Patients With Advanced Cancer
This phase 2 multicenter clinical trial assess the safety and efficacy of inhaled PPP001 to relieve the pain in 78 advanced cancer patients with uncontrolled symptoms. This is a 4-week treatment period study followed by an open label period of 1 year.
Cancer Pain|Quality of Life|Pain, Acute|Cannabis Use
DRUG: PPP001|DRUG: Placebo
Uncontrolled cancer pain will be measured using a patient self-administered questionnaire., European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 15 Palliative (EORTC-QLQ-C15-PAL). items are rated on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). high scores on a symptom scale correlate to increased symptom burden, change from baseline in the EORTC-QLQ-C15-PAL pain multi-item scale score at Week 4.
The overall HRQoL (Health related Quality of Life) of patients with uncontrolled symptoms related to advanced cancer will be measured using a patient self rating questionnaire., European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 15 Palliative (EORTC-QLQ-C15-PAL). single-item scale is rated from 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). High scores on a functional scale correspond to better functioning, change from baseline in the EORTC-QLQ-C15-PAL overall QoL single-item scale score at Week 4|The physical, emotional, and total symptom distress will be measured using a patient self administered questionnaire., Revised Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS-r-CS). 11 core symptoms: pain, tiredness, nausea, depression, anxious, drowsiness, appetite, feeling of well-being, shortness of breath, constipation and trouble sleeping. 11-point NRS ranging from 0 (no symptom) to 10 (worst possible)., Change from Baseline in ESAS-r-CS at Weeks 1 and 4|The palliative performance scale will be scored by a healthcare profesional., palliative performance scale version 2 (PPSv2) for measuring functional status in end-of-life patients. A healthcare professional scores each dimension by assigning a value from 100% to 0% (death), with 10% denoting the lowest level of functioning, Change from Baseline in PPS at Weeks 1 and 4|The satisfaction of family caregivers of patients with advanced cancer will be measured using a caregiver self administered questionnaire., The treatment satisfaction questionnaire (change version) will be used. Scale range is a left to right 7-item scale for caregiver. each item is scored from 5 (Much more satisfied now) to 1 (Much Less satisfied now)., Change from Baseline in treatment-satisfaction questionnaire at Weeks 1 and 4|The distress of patients with advanced cancer will be measured using a patient self-administered questionnaire, distress thermometer adopted as a screening measure to identify and address psychological distress in individuals with cancer. Results support a cut-off score of 3 on the DT to indicate patients with clinically elevated levels of distress ., Change from Baseline in distress thermometer at Week 4
This is a 4-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group design trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of inhaled PPP001 on uncontrolled cancer pain in patients with symptoms related to advanced incurable cancer.