Superficial Basal Cell Cancer's Photodynamic Therapy: Comparing Three Photosensitizers: HAL and BF-200 ALA Versus MAL
This pilot study compares three photosensitisers, hexylaminolevulinate (HAL) and aminolevulinic acid nano emulsion (BF-200 ALA) to methylaminolevulinate (MAL) in photodynamic therapy of superficially growing basal cell carcinomas. Study is conducted using randomised prospective double blinded comparing design. Fluorescence is measured in A.U. (Arbitrary Unit) with standardised set-up before and after the exposure. Efficacy is assessed clinically, histologically and by hyperspectral imaging system at 3 months, 12 months and 5 years.
Neoplasms, Basal Cell|Carcinoma, Basal Cell|Photochemotherapy|Photosensitizing Agents
DRUG: Hexylaminolevulinate cream|DRUG: Aminolevulinic Acid Nano Emulsion|DRUG: Methylaminolevulinate cream
Histological lesion clearance, 3 months|Histological lesion clearance, 12 months|Histological lesion clearance, 5 years
Detection of subclinical lesion with hyperspectral imaging system, 3 months|Detection of subclinical lesion with hyperspectral imaging system, 12 months|Detection of subclinical lesion with hyperspectral imaging system, 5 years
Fluorescence measured in A.U. (Arbitrary Units) with standardised set-up, with Wood's light, digital camera and a yellow lens, before (point 0 min) and after (point 8 min) the exposure|Pain in VAS-scale, in the beginning (point 0 min), middle (point 4 min) and end (point 8 min) of the exposure
Study recruits volunteering patients, who are referred to the department of dermatology and allergology, Päijät-Häme Central Hospital, Lahti, with 99 clinically assessed superficial basal cell carcinoma on the body area, not face and scalp. Diagnoses is confirmed histologically by punch biopsies and hyperspectral images are taken before the biopsies. The lesions are randomised in three groups: interventions HAL and BF-200 ALA and comparator MAL. Photodynamic therapy is given by the standard procedure. Fluorescence is measured in A.U. (Arbitrary Unit) with standardised set-up, with Wood's light, digital camera and a yellow lens, before and after the exposure. Pain is measured in VAS-scale before, during and after the exposure. Efficacy is assessed clinically, histologically and by hyperspectral imaging system at 3 months, 12 months and 5 years.