Functional Analysis of BRCAness
PARP inhibitors are most effective in homologous recombinant (HR) deficient tumors. There are clear indications that besides BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutated EOC, there is an additional group of EOC having deficiencies in HR (i.e. BRCAness) that might benefit from treatment with PARP inhibitors. Assessment of HR in high grade EOC might therefore serve as a better predictive biomarker and allow the identification of a larger group of patients that could benefit most from platinum based chemotherapy and maintenance treatment with a PARP inhibitor. We recently developed a robust ex vivo functional assay (RAD51 assay;) to test HR in viable tumor tissue. In the proposed study, we will evaluate whether the RAD51 assay predicts sensitivity to therapy with olaparib, in patients with recurrent EOC. With the RAD51 assay we aim to identify a larger number of patients who will benefit from treatment with the PARP inhibitor olaparib than patients with a germline or somatic BRCA mutation only. Furthermore, we aim to identify molecular markers (including genomic markers) that are associated with the outcome of the RAD51 assay. Finally, we will explore whether these molecular markers can be measured in liquid biopsies by analysing ctDNA.
Ovarian Neoplasm Epithelial|Homologous Recombination Deficiency|BRCA1 Mutation|BRCA2 Mutation
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Functional RAD51 assay|DRUG: Olaparib Oral Product
Response Rate, The primary endpoint is the RR, defined as the best overall response (partial response and/or complete response) according to RECIST1.1 for both the HR proficient and HR deficient group as determined by the RAD51 assay., 3 years
Progression free survival (PFS), time from start of maintenance olaparib to the date of first documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, of olaparib for the BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutant (germline or somatic) HR deficient group, the non BRCA mutant HR deficient group and the HR proficient group, 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), time from start olaparib to death (any cause)., 3 years|RAD51 test, Percentage of informative RAD51 test results in tumor biopsies and/or ascites, 3 years|Loss of function mutation, Identify loss of function mutations in genes involved in HR as part of the molecular analysis in the HR proficient and HR deficient group as determined by the RAD51 assay., 3 years|NCT-CTC toxicity criteria, Safety and adverse events (AE) of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03 (CTCAE) grade 3\>5., 3 years
molecular marker in liquid biopsies, molecular marker analysis BRCA/HRD (ctDNA in blood), using NGS and digital PCR analyses, 3 years
Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) often presents at an advanced stage, and harbours an unfavourable prognosis. Standard of care includes complete or optimal debulking surgery and chemotherapy, however, most patients experience recurrent disease. Recurrences are often treated with additional chemotherapy, and for selected patients, treatment with PARP inhibitors may be an option. Patients with platinum sensitive recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) and a germ-line or somatic BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation, who are in response to platinum based chemotherapy are currently eligible for maintenance treatment with the Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor olaparib after chemotherapy. Germline (11-15%) or somatically acquired (6-7%) BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations lead to deficiency in homologous recombination (HR) and subsequent less effective DNA repair. PARP inhibitors are most effective in HR deficient tumors. There are clear indications that besides BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutated EOC, there is an additional group of EOC (\~15-30%) having deficiencies in HR (i.e. BRCAness) that might benefit from treatment with PARP inhibitors (Mukhopadhyay, Cancer Res 2012; Konstantinopolos, Cancer Discovery 2015; Telli, Clin Cancer Res 2016). Assessment of HR in high grade EOC might therefore serve as a better predictive biomarker and allow the identification of a larger group of patients that could benefit most from platinum based chemotherapy and maintenance treatment with a PARP inhibitor. We recently developed a robust ex vivo functional assay (RAD51 assay;) to test HR in viable tumor tissue (Naipal, Clin. Cancer Res., 2014). It is still unknown however, whether the outcome of the RAD51 assay reliably predicts the sensitivity to platinum-based chemotherapy or PARP inhibitors. In the proposed study, we will therefore evaluate whether the RAD51 assay predicts sensitivity to therapy with olaparib, in patients with recurrent EOC. With the RAD51 assay we aim to identify a larger number of patients who will benefit from treatment with the PARP inhibitor olaparib than patients with a germline or somatic BRCA mutation only. Furthermore, we aim to identify molecular markers (including genomic markers) that are associated with the outcome of the RAD51 assay. Finally, we will explore whether these molecular markers can be measured in liquid biopsies by analysing ctDNA.