Immunotherapy for Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL), Blast Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia (BP CML), and Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) Relapse After Allogeneic Transplantation
The relapse of acute leukemia, MDS and blast phase CML after allogeneic transplantation affects approximately 1/3 to 1/2 of all transplant recipients and is the main cause of treatment failure. There is currently no effective standard treatment for this condition.

This study will test the activity and feasibility of using a regimen to boost the immune system in order to treat AML, ALL, blast phase CML, and MDS relapse after allogeneic transplantation.
Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: GM-CSF|BIOLOGICAL: Interferon-α-2b
Efficacy of GM-CSF and Pegylated Interferon-alpha 2b When Administered to Patients With AML, ALL, Blast Phase CML, and MDS Relapse After Allogeneic Transplantation, Defined as Progression-free Survival of > 33% at 3 Months, Efficacy is defined as progression-free survival of \> 33% at 3 months. This is based on our retrospective data on 10% 3 month survival for relapsed patients. Progression is defined an an increase in blasts in blood or marrow by 50% compared to baseline with at least 20% of all cells being blasts at the time of assessment., 3 months after cytokine treatment
Overall Survival at 6 Months (Evaluate Overall Responses; Perform Lab Experiments to Test Hypothesis That Exposure to Interferon-alpha and GM-CSF Up-regulates Co-stimulatory Molecule Expression on Relapsed Acute Leukemia Cells), 6 months after cytokine treatment
This is a pilot phase II open label study testing the activity and feasibility of utilizing a regimen to boost the immune system in order to treat AML, ALL, blast phase CML, and MDS relapse after allogeneic transplantation. The regimen is a step-wise use of withdrawal of immunosuppression, cytoreduction if needed, administration of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and pegylated interferon (IFN) α-2b to patients who relapsed after an allogeneic transplant and will assess efficacy.

Relapse is the major problem following allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor cell transplants. There is currently no standard way to treat leukemia that relapsed after transplant, and patients have a poor prognosis.

A retrospective analysis of patients treated at Emory showed that administration of GM-CSF and interferon-alpha-2b was well-tolerated and affected long-term remissions in a small number of relapsed patients (after allogeneic transplant). Pre-clinical and clinical data from ours and other centers showed that relapsed leukemic blasts have down-regulation of co-stimulatory molecules and a tendency to evade the immune system. Cytokines can up-regulate co-stimulatory molecules on leukemic blasts and have been shown to increase the cytotoxicity of T-cells. This effect may be beneficial as a graft vs. leukemia effect for patients with relapse after allogeneic transplant.