Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage IV Melanoma
RATIONALE: Vaccines may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells. Infusing the vaccine directly into a lymph node may cause a stronger immune response and kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of vaccine therapy given directly into a lymph node in treating patients who have stage IV melanoma.
Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: Synchrotope TA2M|BIOLOGICAL: Synchrotope TA2M|BIOLOGICAL: Synchrotope TA2M
Frequency of adverse events assessed by complete blood count, blood chemistry, polymerase chain reaction, physical examination and urinalysis, Individual 96-hour infusion periods on days 0, 14, 28 and 42 and on day 56
Change in magnitude of antigen-specific cytotoxic t-lymphocyte in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Day 0 (pre-study), last day of individual 96-hour infusion periods (days 4, 17, 31 and 45) and on day 56|Assessment of delayed-type hypersensitivity to intradermal injections 24 hours after injection, Days 1, 29 and 57|Change in size of target lesions by x-ray computed tomography before (day 0) and after (day 56)treatment, Change from pre-study (day 0) to day 56
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety and tolerability of intranodal Synchrotope TA2M plasmid DNA vaccine in patients with stage IV melanoma. II. Determine the immune response of patients treated with this vaccine. III. Determine the clinical response of patients treated with this vaccine.

OUTLINE: This is dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients receive Synchrotope TA2M plasmid DNA vaccine intranodally continuously over 96 hours beginning on days 0, 14, 28, and 42. Treatment continues for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 8 patients receive escalating doses of Synchrotope TA2M plasmid DNA vaccine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which no more than 2 of 8 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 16-24 patients will be accrued for this study within 12 months.