Improving Cancer Symptom Management
Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) is an umbrella term that refers to any report on a health status measure that is reported directly by the patient, without the influence of clinicians or anyone else. PROMs have been shown to more closely reflect a patient's daily health status when compared to physician-reported measures. However, research is needed to evaluate if patient symptom reporting during definitive-intent radiotherapy allows earlier and improved detection of treatment toxicity.

The IMPROVE pilot study will describe the proportion of patients with cancer with changes in physician-perception of treatment-related toxicity that result from routine physician review of PROMs reported during definitive radiotherapy.
Cancer|Thoracic Neoplasms|Gastrointestinal Cancer|Lung Cancer
Proportion of participants with change in their physician-assessed burden score, The primary outcome is the proportion of patients with any change in their physicians-assessed burden scores for at least one radiotherapy on-treatment visit, along with their exact binomial 95% confidence interval. Lee et al. demonstrated the feasibility of using a global burden score to capture the provider's overall perception of the combined burden of all assessed symptoms, using a visual analogue scale demarcating an aggregate score from 0 to 10. This scale uses anchors at 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 for no, mild, moderate, severe, life-threatening adverse events, and death, respectively., Up to 2 months
Proportion of participants with changes in the management of on-treatment symptoms, During weekly on-treatment visits and prior to reviewing their patient's PROMs, physicians will formulate an initial symptom management plan based on available clinical data. Then after reviewing the patient's PROMs, physicians will report any change in recommended interventions due to review of the PROMs., Up to 2 months|Management changes as assessed by a Clinician Feedback Form, At the end of each patient's course of radiotherapy, providers will complete a Clinician Feedback Form that details the types of new management interventions resulting from routine review of the PROMs over the course of definitive radiation., Up to 2 months
Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) is an umbrella term that refers to any report on a health status measure that is reported directly by the patient, without the influence of clinicians or anyone else. PROMs have been shown to more closely reflect a patient's daily health status when compared to physician-reported measures. However, research is needed to evaluate if patient symptom reporting during definitive-intent radiotherapy allows earlier and improved detection of treatment toxicity, and leads to individualized interventions which may improve the toxicity outcomes for patients with locally-advanced and oligometastatic cancer.

The investigators hypothesize that routine physician review of PROMs during on-treatment visits will (1) increase proportion of patients with an increased in their physician' s assessment of their overall toxicity burden during definitive radiotherapy, and (2) correspondingly increase the proportion of patients receiving physician-directed interventions for treatment-related symptoms.

The IMPROVE pilot study will describe the proportion of patients with cancer with changes in physician-perception of treatment-related toxicity that result from routine physician review of PROMs reported during definitive radiotherapy. The IMPROVE study will also describe (1) the proportion of patients with changes in the management of treatment-related symptoms and (2) the type of management changes that result from routine physician review of PROMs reported during definitive radiotherapy.