Celecoxib in Preventing Multiple Myeloma in Patients With Monoclonal Gammopathy or Smoldering Myeloma
This randomized phase II trial studies how well celecoxib works in preventing multiple myeloma in patients with monoclonal gammopathy or smoldering myeloma. Chemoprevention therapy is the use of certain drugs to try to prevent the development or recurrence of cancer. The use of celecoxib may be effective in preventing multiple myeloma.
Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance|Multiple Myeloma|Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: celecoxib|DRUG: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Changes in M-protein Levels, For a given biomarker (or a suitable transformation of it, e.g. log transform) t-tests and Wilcoxon tests (2-sample t-test and Wilcoxon rank sum test for between treatment comparisons, and paired 1-sample t-test and Wilcoxon signed rank test for within treatment comparisons) will be used to detect statistically significant differences between (or within) treatments., Baseline and 6 months
PRIMARY OJBECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of celecoxib vs placebo in reducing serum levels of M-component in patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance or smoldering myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the effects of this drug on secondary biomarkers as surrogate endpoints in these patients.

OUTLINE:

This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating center and type of monoclonal gammopathy (monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance vs smoldering myeloma). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive celecoxib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 6 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or progression to malignancy.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 6 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or progression to malignancy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1, 6, and 12 months.