Decitabine Followed by Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride, Etoposide, and Cytarabine in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia or High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of decitabine followed by mitoxantrone hydrochloride, etoposide, and cytarabine and to see how well they work in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome that has returned after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as mitoxantrone hydrochloride, etoposide, cytarabine, and decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells.
Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Etoposide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride
Most Efficacious and Tolerated Dosage of Decitabine (Period 1), MTD (most tolerated dose) of decitabine, measured in number of dose limiting toxicities. MTD defined as the highest dose in which the incidence of dose limiting toxicity is \< 33%, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (Phase I), through day 45
Remission Rate Including CR and CRp, Complete remission (CR) and Complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp) categorized according to criteria recommended by International Working Groups:

Complete resolution of disease-related symptoms and signs including palpable hepatosplenomegaly; hemoglobin level at least 110 g/L, platelet count at least 100x10\^9/L, and absolute neutrophil count at least 1.0 x10\^9/L. In addition, all 3 blood counts should be no higher than the upper normal limit; Normal leukocyte differential; Bone marrow histologic remission defined as the presence of age-adjusted normocellularity, no more than 5% myeloblasts, and an osteomyelofibrosis grade no higher than 1., Up to 5 years|Duration of Relapse-free Survival (for Patients Achieving CR or CRp), Categorized according to criteria recommended by International Working Groups., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Survival measured as of day of last contact. Categorized according to criteria recommended by International Working Groups., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of decitabine priming followed by sequential mitoxantrone hydrochloride/etoposide/cytarabine (MEC) chemotherapy in adults with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine, within the limits of a Phase 1/2 study, disease response and duration of remission.

II. Identify biomarkers (e.g., deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\] methylation and/or gene expression changes) associated with treatment responses.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of decitabine followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) on days -9 to -5 (dose level 1), days -11 to -5 (dose level 2), or days -14 to -5 (dose level 3).

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV on days 1-5, etoposide IV on days 1-5, and cytarabine IV on days 1-5. Patients achieving complete response (CR) or CR with incomplete platelet count recovery (CRp) may receive up to 2 courses of induction therapy and up to 2 courses of consolidation therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 5 years.