Genomic Signatures to Predict Treatment Response
A genomic test was developed to predict chemo-sensitivity to taxane-anthracycline-based chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment. The primary aim of this study is to prospectively evaluate the microarray-based, genomic test as a predictor of axillary lymph node response. Also, to determine whether the probability of achieving negative axillary nodes, is sufficiently high for patients whose breast cancer is predicted to be chemo-sensitive to support omitting axillary dissection.
Breast Neoplasms
Probability of achieving a negative axillary nodal status, The overall rate of pathologic lymph node-negative status (pLN0) will be evaluated, including clinically lymph node-negative (cLN-) and lymph node-positive (cLN+) patients. For sample size calculation we will consider the rate of nodal conversion from clinically node-positive (cLN+) before treatment to pathologic node-negative (pLN0) after the completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Patients who are clinically node positive (cLN+) will be evaluated for nodal response, i.e. conversion to pLN0 status. We assume that 30% of these patients will be predicted by the genomic predictor as responders (i.e. pLN0 status) after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and that 70% of them will actually achieve pLN0 status. The study will be sized to have 80% power to detect observed response (pLN-negative) rates \> 50% in cLN-positive patients after neoadjuvant chemotherapy at a 95% confidence level (one sided). Probability will be measured in percent., at time of surgery
A genomic test was developed to predict chemo-sensitivity to taxane-anthracycline-based chemotherapy as neoadjuvant treatment. The primary aim of this study is to prospectively evaluate the microarray-based, genomic test as a predictor of axillary lymph node response. Also, to determine whether the probability of achieving negative axillary nodes, is sufficiently high for patients whose breast cancer is predicted to be chemo-sensitive to support omitting axillary dissection.