Norris ORIEN Total Cancer Care
This research trial collects biological samples and clinical information to create a repository of data from patients with cancer or a predisposition for cancer. Combining genetic information from biological samples and clinical data may lead to more knowledge about why certain cancers respond to treatment and help create more personalized medicine.
Cancer Risk|Malignant Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Evaluation of Cancer Risk Factors|OTHER: Medical Chart Review|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Number of biospecimen collected for a centralized repository that is linked to clinical data, Establish and maintain a unique repository of blood, tissue, other biological samples and their associated data (survey data, medical records data, cancer registry data, and other related data) collected from thousands of patients 18 years of age or older who have cancer or are at risk of developing cancer., Up to 21 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish a longitudinal study of clinical and related data from patients with or at risk for cancer.

II. To establish a large biospecimen repository that is linked to clinical and related data.

III. To follow patients through their lifetime though passive or active follow-up.

IV. To use clinical data, tissues, other biological samples and derived molecular data in the Total Cancer Care Protocol (TCCP) repositories to match patients in this TCCP study to future studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo collection of blood during a regular care visit or not up to 4 times a year. Extra tissue is collected after removal during standard of care surgery and patients may undergo additional tumor sampling (needle passes) at the time of planned diagnostic biopsies. During bone marrow biopsy, the doctor may reposition the needle up to 3 times, and bone marrow for research will not be collected more than 4 times per year. Patients may undergo additional collection of other biological samples such as saliva, sputum, urine, feces, hair, and surface skin swabs for analysis. Patients also receive surveys or questionnaires to collect demographics, medical, family, and nutritional history, cancer predisposing risk factors, quality of life data, and quality of care data.

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.