A Pan-Canadian, Investigator Initiated Clinical Trial With Focal IRE Directed to Intermediate-Risk Prostate Cancer
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the safety and efficacy of Irreversible Electroporation (IRE) using NanoKnife technology in patients with intermediate-risk prostate cancer. This patient population was chosen because they would otherwise be treated with conventional therapies with high side effects. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Is the NanoKnife system is effective at damaging prostate tumour cells, and killing the cancer?
2. Are there any safety concerns with the procedure, or major side effects caused by the treatment?

Participants will undergo IRE treatment with the NanoKnife system, and then complete follow-up appointments for 12-months after the procedure.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: Irreversible Electroporation (NanoKnife)
Rate of negative in-field biopsy at 12 months, To determine the NanoKnife System's ablation effectiveness by measuring the negative in-field biopsy rate at 12 months, 1 year|Incidence of adverse events by type and CTCAE v5.0 severity through 12 months, To determine the NanoKnife System's procedural and post-procedural safety profile by evaluation adverse event incidence, type, and severity through 12 months, 1 year
Evaluation of clinically significant prostate cancer rate of development outside the ablation zone, To evaluate whether clinically significant prostate cancer will develop outside the ablation zone in men selected for focal IRE therapy as determined by positive prostate biopsy outside the ablation zone 12 months post treatment, 1 year|Assessment of urinary function after NanoKnife System treatment by comparison of pre- and post-operative UCLA Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite, Assessment of urinary function by comparison of pre- and post-operative UCLA Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (UCLA-EPIC) Urinary Domain and International Prostate Symptom Scores (IPSS) and IPSS Quality of Life2 (IPSS-QoL) scores., 1 year|Assessment of erectile function after NanoKnife System treatment by comparison of pre- and post-operative IIEF-15 potency scores, Assessment of erectile function by comparison of pre- and post-operative 15-Item International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-15) potency scores., 1 year|Effectiveness of therapy by measurement of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) kinetics, To determine post-NanoKnife System treatment prostate-specific antigen (PSA) kinetics, including time to PSA nadir and post-nadir PSA stability, 1 year|Assessment of need for secondary or adjuvant treatment, To determine the effectiveness of therapy by collecting data on the number of patients who need secondary or adjuvant treatment within 12-months post-procedure, 1 year|Evaluation of subject reported pre- and post-operative Quality of Life, To determine health-related quality of life (HRQoL) levels after treatment with the NanoKnife System using a validated subject questionnaire (EQ-5D), 1 year
Evaluation of longer term effectiveness of focal IRE, To examine the rate of progression and re-intervention collected through standard of care follow-up for five years, 5 years|Collection of data on possible delayed adverse events, To evaluate any delayed adverse events collected through standard of care for five years by type and CTCAE v5.0 severity, 5 years
Study Population This study is being conducted with intermediate-risk prostate cancer patients (Gleason score 7). This patient population was chosen because they would otherwise be treated with conventional therapies (RP or RT) which are often associated with significant side effects.

Study Design This study is designed to be a prospective, non-randomized study in 100 subjects treated at up to 5 clinical sites in Canada.

Prospective study subjects who sign a written informed consent will be enrolled in the study. Study eligibility will be confirmed at the Screening visit. Transperineal or transrectal prostate biopsy must have been performed no more than 180 days prior to the time of consent. mpMRI must have been within 360 days prior to treatment. If they continue to meet enrollment criteria, they will be scheduled for treatment and after undergoing standard bowel preparation, the NanoKnife System procedure will be carried out under general anesthesia and utilizing transrectal ultrasound (US) guidance.

Subjects will undergo treatment with the NanoKnife System as well as follow-up visits at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post-procedure. Transrectal US and transperineal or transrectal biopsy will be completed at the 12-month follow up visit. Post-treatment imaging will be completed using mpMRI scan at 9-12 months post-procedure.

Study Agent/ Intervention/ Procedure The intervention being studied is Irreversible Electroporation (IRE) using NanoKnife technology. This technology uses high voltage current via probes placed around the prostate tumour via the perineum. The electricity damages the cell membranes rendering the cells dead. Hypothesized benefits of IRE over other focal therapy options include the ability to treat large or small lesions. Also, because the technology spares vessels, it can be used to treat prostate areas adjacent to sensitive structures (ie. prostate apex near the sphincter and lateral peripheral zone near the neurovascular bundle). Finally, treatments take approximately 1-1.5 hours, thus the technology could be used to treat several patients per day.

Primary Objectives

1. To determine the NanoKnife System's ablation effectiveness and durability by measuring the negative in-field biopsy rate at 12 months.
2. To determine the NanoKnife System's procedural and post-procedural safety profile by evaluating adverse event incidence, type, and severity through 12 months.

Secondary Objectives

1. To evaluate whether clinically significant prostate cancer will develop outside the ablation zone in men selected for focal IRE therapy as determined by positive prostate biopsy outside the ablation zone 12 months post treatment.
2. To evaluate urinary and erectile function after NanoKnife System treatment using validated subject questionnaires (UCLA-EPIC, IPSS, IPSS-QOL, IIEF-15).
3. To determine post-NanoKnife System treatment prostate-specific antigen (PSA) kinetics, including time to PSA nadir and post-nadir PSA stability.
4. To determine the effectiveness of therapy by assessing the need for secondary or salvage treatment following therapy.
5. To determine health-related quality of life (HRQoL) levels after treatment with the NanoKnife System using a validated subject questionnaire (EQ-5D).

Exploratory Objective

1. To evaluate longer term effectiveness of focal IRE and possible delayed adverse events through 5-years.