Advanced Therapeutics in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
This study will evaluate the retention rates of two advanced therapies, Tumour Necrosis Factor (TNF) and Janus kinase inhibitor (JAK) in the treatment of adults with Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) over a two year period. It will also examine the ability to embed a clinical trial in a clinical situation using an electronic medical record (EMR).
Rheumatoid Arthritis
DRUG: Etanercept|DRUG: tofacitinib
Retention Rates, Evaluation of the proportion of patients in each arm still on the randomized treatment, 24 months
Mean Change in Disease Activity, The mean change from baseline in the Clinical Disease Activity Index in each arm of the study. The Clinical Disease Activity Index measures the number of tender or swollen joints, patient global assessment of disease activity, and provider global assessment of disease activity. Total tender joint count=0-28, total swollen joint count=0-28, patient global score=0-10, provider global score=0-10. Total range score=0-76. Higher values for all subscales, tender and swollen joints, global assessments indicate higher disease activity. Scores for subscales are combined to calculate the total score., 24 months
Conventional therapies for Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) treatment include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective inhibitors, corticosteroids and disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). These therapies are often partially effective.

For those patients, where conventional therapies have failed to alleviate their symptoms, Tumour Necrosis Factor (TNFis) is often prescribed to treat the pain and inflammation associated with RA. The main problem with TNFi and other advanced therapies in RA is retention. At least ¼ of patients stop treatment within a year and another ⅕ to ¼ in the second year, mostly due to secondary loss of efficacy.

Another advanced therapy, the Janus kinase inhibitor (JAK) has demonstrated similar efficacy to TNFi treatment in RA. This trial will determine if using a different class of treatment (small molecule, oral drug, JAK kinase inhibitor) will have a better retention than a TNFi (using the most commonly prescribed TNFi for RA in Canada).