Avatar-Directed Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well Avatar-directed chemotherapy works in treating patients with ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer that does not respond to platinum anti-cancer drugs. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, gemcitabine hydrochloride, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride, topotecan hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Using an Avatar, a living tumor sample with similar genetic characteristics to the original tumor, may help determine which chemotherapy is most effective.
Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Topotecan Hydrochloride
Percentage of Patients With a Confirmed Tumor Response, Defined as Complete Response or Partial Response Estimated Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 Criteria, Estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the exact Binomial method. The primary analysis will pool across all patients, and tumor response rate by treatment arm will also be looked at in an exploratory fashion., 24 weeks
Number of Patients Experiencing Grade 3+ Adverse Events (AE), Maximum grade for each type of AE will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine AE patterns., 9 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Analysis will be conducted with all arms of Avatar-directed chemotherapy pooled., 25 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Analysis will be conducted with all arms of Avatar-directed chemotherapy pooled., 9 months|Number of Patients With a Partial or Confirmed Response, The Chi-square or Fisher's Exact test will be used to compare the response rates between patients who did or did not receive bevacizumab treatment. The response rates will also be reported by treatment type., 9 months
Enriched Avatar Response Signature in Response to Avatar-directed Therapy Using Patient Outcomes, This will be an exploratory analysis that will use the outcome data from this trial to inform future work using Avatar directed therapy., Up to 3 years|Frequency (%) of Patients Who Had an Avatar Response and a Clinical Tumor Response for the Same Treatment, Overall concordance rate and confidence interval will be reported., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate of Avatar-directed salvage chemotherapy in patients with platinum-resistant ovarian, primary peritoneal and fallopian tube cancers.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival of patients with platinum-resistant ovarian, primary peritoneal and fallopian tube cancers receiving Avatar-directed salvage chemotherapy.

II. To determine the overall survival of patients with platinum-resistant ovarian, primary peritoneal and fallopian tube cancers receiving Avatar-directed salvage chemotherapy.

III. To determine the adverse events for patients with platinum-resistant ovarian, primary peritoneal and fallopian tube cancers receiving Avatar-directed salvage chemotherapy.

IV. To determine the correlation between patient response and response in their Avatar.

V. To enrich the Avatar response signature in response to Avatar-directed therapy using patient outcomes.

VI. To compare the response rates between patients who did or did not receive bevacizumab treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment arms as directed by Avatar results.

ARM A: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1-96 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity

ARM B: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM D: Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 every 21 days or days 1, 8, and 15 every 28 days. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1 every 21 days or days 1 and 15 every 28 days. Courses repeat every 21 or 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 3 years.