Study of Neoadjuvant Carboplatin, Eribulin and Trastuzumab for Operable HER2 Positive Breast Cancer
This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of eribulin in combination with carboplatin and trastuzumab in the neoadjuvant setting in subjects who are human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)2 positive and are clinically stage IIA to IIIB.

The study regimen will be administered every 3 weeks for a total of 6 cycles followed by definitive surgery.
HER-2 Positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: eribulin|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: trastuzumab
Pathologic Response, Definitive surgery will be performed 3 to 8 weeks after completion of study treatment. The pathology report will be scored for pathologic response: complete pathologic response (no invasive cancer in breast or lymph nodes; residual DCIS or LCIS is acceptable), partial pathologic response (residual invasive cancer in breast and/or lymph nodes), or no response (pathologic staging is equal to or worse than pretreatment clinical staging)., Assessed at time of definitive surgery, approximately 21-26 weeks from study treatment start
Clinical Response, Clinical assessment of response will be performed 3 weeks after completion of study treatment. The treating physician will assess clinical response using physical examination and radiologic evaluation. Clinical response options are complete response (no invasive tumor in breast and lymph nodes), partial response (\> 50% reduction in longest diameter of pretreatment tumor), no response (\< 50% response to 10% growth of tumor as determined by longest diameter of pretreatment tumor size), and progression., Assessed prior to definitive surgery, approximately 18 weeks from study treatment start.
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Eribulin in Combination With Carboplatin and Trastuzuamb, The MTD is defined as the dose at which \<= 1 of 6 subjects experience DLT (Dose Limiting Toxicity) and above which \>= 2 of 6 subjects experience DLT., Approximately 22 days from study treatment start, per subject|Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), DLT is defined as grade 4 thrombocytopenia; grade 4 anemia; grade 4 neutropenia lasting \> 5 days; or any grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity occurring during Cycle 1 which is attributable to eribulin, carboplatin, trastuzumab or the combination, or the inability to deliver all three agents at the assigned dose and scheduled time during Cycle 1.The following events are excluded from the DLT definition: grade 3 nausea and/or vomiting responsive to antiemetics; grade 3 fever or infection; grade 3 diarrhea responsive to antidiarrheal therapy., Approximately 22 days from study treatment start, per subject
During Phase I, the eribulin dose will be assigned upon study enrollment. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) determined in Phase I will be the dose used for Phase II. Eribulin will be administered intravenously (IV) over 2 to 5 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Carboplatin area under the curve (AUC) 6 will be administered IV over 15 to 30 minutes on Day 1 of each cycle. Trastuzumab will be administered as an IV infusion on Day 1 of each cycle. A loading dose of 8 mg/kg of trastuzumab will be administered over 90 minutes on Cycle 1 Day 1. Then, a maintenance dose of 6 mg/kg of trastuzumab will be administered over 30 to 90 minutes on Day 1 of Cycles 2 - 6.

eribulin: During Phase I, the eribulin dose will be assigned upon study enrollment. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) determined in Phase I will be the dose used for Phase II. Eribulin will be administered intravenously (IV) over 2 to 5 minutes on Days 1 and 8 of each cycle.

carboplatin: Carboplatin area under the curve