Resilience and Quality of Life in Patients With Gynaecological Carcinomas and Chronic Gynaecological Diseases
The intended pilot project aims at evaluating the feasibility and acceptability of questionnaires about resilience and quality of life in two different patient groups (either with a gynaecological carcinoma ora chronic gynaecological disease). The results provided by this pilot study will build the basis of an upcoming, larger project including these questionnaires and the main objective of assessing resilience. More precisely, the study aims at answering the following questions. How is the overall resilience and quality of life in the target population at one assessment point? Are the instruments used in this pilot feasible for the target population when assessing resilience and quality of life?
Gynecologic Disease|Gynecologic Cancer
OTHER: Connor Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC 10)
resilience measured by questionnaire, Total Score of the resilience questions is 0 to 40, 10 subscales from 0 to 4 (summed up for total score), the higher the score the better the resilience, up to 1 year
quality of life measured by questionnaire, Questions about Quality of life: Total score 0-25, 5 subscales 0 to 5 (summed up for total score), the higher the score the lower is Quality of life., up to 1 year
quality of life measured by VAS in the questionnaire, visual analogue scale (VAS) about Feeling healthy: Score 0 to 100 the higher the score the better is Quality of life, up to 1 year
The intended pilot project aims at evaluating the feasibility and acceptability of questionnaires about resilience and quality of life in two different patient groups (either with a gynaecological carcinoma ora chronic gynaecological disease). The results provided by this pilot study will build the basis of an upcoming, larger project including these questionnaires and the main objective of assessing resilience. More precisely, the study aims at answering the following questions. How is the overall resilience and quality of life in the target population at one assessment point? Are the instruments used in this pilot feasible for the target population when assessing resilience and quality of life?