Study of Axitinib in Patients With Neurofibromatosis Type 2 and Progressive Vestibular Schwannomas
The purpose of this study is to determine if the study drug, AXITINIB, has any effect on tumors found in patients with Neurofibromatosis Type 2 (NF2).
Neurofibromatosis Type 2|Vestibular Schwannomas
DRUG: Axitinib
Expression Levels of p-S6 Based Immunohistochemistry (Histoscore), The histoscore is given as the sum of the percentage of staining multiplied by an ordinal value corresponding to the intensity level (0 = none, 1 = weak, 2 = moderate, 3 = strong). With 4 intensity levels, the resulting score ranged from 0 (no staining in the tumor) to 300 (diffuse intense staining of the tumor)., 10 days|Expression Levels of p-ERK Based Immunohistochemistry (Histoscore), The histoscore is given as the sum of the percentage of staining multiplied by an ordinal value corresponding to the intensity level (0 = none, 1 = weak, 2 = moderate, 3 = strong). With 4 intensity levels, the resulting score ranged from 0 (no staining in the tumor) to 300 (diffuse intense staining of the tumor)., 10 days|Expression Levels of p-AKT Based Immunohistochemistry (Histoscore), The histoscore is given as the sum of the percentage of staining multiplied by an ordinal value corresponding to the intensity level (0 = none, 1 = weak, 2 = moderate, 3 = strong). With 4 intensity levels, the resulting score ranged from 0 (no staining in the tumor) to 300 (diffuse intense staining of the tumor)., 10 days|Pre-Operative Everolimus Blood Levels, Baseline|Post-Operative Everolimus Blood Levels, 10 days
NF2 is a condition that mainly affects the skin and nervous system. It causes non-cancerous tumors to grow on the nerves around a person's body. Some signs of NF2 include a gradual loss of hearing and tumors growing on the skin, the brain and the spinal cord, which can lead to complications.

AXITINIB is an oral drug (taken by mouth) that is approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of other types of tumors. However, in this research study, AXITINIB is considered investigational because it is not approved by the FDA for treatment of NF2. Much is known regarding how well it is tolerated (handled), but investigators do not know if it is effective in treating NF2.

This research study will test whether AXITINIB may shrink tumors commonly found in patients with NF2 or stop them from growing. This will help to decide if AXITINIB should be used to treat NF2 patients in the future. AXITINIB is a drug that has been used to treat various forms of cancer. It has not been studied for the treatment of tumors in NF2 patients. Investigators have selected AXITINIB for this clinical trial in patients with NF2 and NF2-related tumors because a very similar drug, bevacizumab, can shrink Vestibular Schwannomas (VS) in some NF2 patients.

Pfizer, Inc., the manufacturer of the study drug, AXITINIB, will provide the AXITINIB being used in this study.

Primary Objective: To estimate the objective volumetric response rates to axitinib in adult NF2 patients with VS.

Secondary Objectives: To assess the toxicity of axitinib given daily in patients with NF2 and to examine the association of objective measures of response on MRI, i.e. volumetric tumor analysis with clinical measures of response, i.e. (audiogram), as well as quality of life assessments (NFTI-QOL). In addition, response in non-VS tumors, such as other schwannomas and meningiomas, may be explored.