Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy and Paclitaxel With or Without Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies the side effects and how well intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and paclitaxel with or without pazopanib hydrochloride works in treating patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer. Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether radiation therapy and paclitaxel are more effective when given with pazopanib hydrochloride in treating thyroid cancer.
Thyroid Gland Anaplastic Carcinoma
RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Placebo Administration
(Phase II) Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as time from randomization to the date of death (failure) from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Overall survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. One-year rates are provided. Analysis occurred after all eligible participants were potentially followed for 3 years., From randomization to last follow-up.Maximum follow-up for phase II participants at time of analysis was 4.2 years.|(Phase I) Number of Participants With Treatment-related Grade 4 Hemorrhage, Grade 4 Febrile Neutropenia, or Grade 5 Adverse Event (AE), or Discontinuation of Treatment Due to Toxicity [Adverse Events of Concern (AEC)], Common Terminology Criteria for AEs (version 4.0) grades AE severity from 1=mild to 5=death. Discontinuation of treatment due to toxicity is defined as \< 75% of planned radiation therapy delivered. "Treatment-related" = definitely, probably, or possibly related to treatment. A single run-in arm was originally planned, but additional run-in arms were added due to amendments to the protocol regimen unrelated to toxicities. A two-stage design based on the binomial distribution was used in which the 1st stage analyzes the run-in arm and the 2nd stage analyzes run-in and phase II pazopanib arm participants combined. Because there were multiple run-in arms, only the last is used in the 2nd stage analysis. 1st stage: If ≤4 of 9 participants experience AEC, then conclude treatment is safe. 2nd stage: If ≤8 of 24 participants experience AEC, then conclude treatment safe. Otherwise conclude the treatment is too toxic. Summary data is provided here, see AE Module for specific AE data., From registration to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up for run-in and phase II participants at time of analysis was 7.4 years.
(Phase II) Local-regional Control, Local-regional failure is defined as local-regional relapse/progression in the thyroid bed or regional lymph nodes. Time to local-regional failure is defined as time from randomization to the date of first local-regional recurrence, last known follow-up (censored), or death without local recurrence (competing risk). Failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies 6- and 12-month estimates to be reported and for the full distributions of failure times to be compared between the arms. Analysis occurred after all eligible participants were potentially followed for 3 years., From randomization to last follow-up.Maximum follow-up for phase II participants at time of analysis was 4.2 years. (Statistical analysis compares full distributions therefore all available follow-up was used.)|(Phase II) Percentage of Participants With Treatment-related Grade 4 Hemorrhage, Grade 4 Febrile Neutropenia, or Grade 5 Adverse Event, or Discontinuation of Treatment Due to Toxicity [Adverse Events of Concern], Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, v. 4.0) grades adverse event severity from 1=mild to 5=death. Discontinuation of treatment due to toxicity is defined as \< 75% of planned radiation therapy delivered. Adverse events rated as definitely, probably, or possibly related to treatment were considered treatment-related. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure.; See Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data., From start of treatment to last follow-up.Maximum follow-up for phase II participants at time of analysis was 4.2 years.|(Phase II) Percentage of Participants With Treatment-related Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events Other Than Grade 4 Hemorrhage or Grade 4 Febrile Neutropenia [Not Adverse Events of Concern], Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, v. 4.0) grades adverse event severity from 1=mild to 5=death. Adverse events rated as definitely, probably, or possibly related to treatment were considered treatment-related. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure.; See Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data., From start of treatment to last follow-up.Maximum follow-up for phase II participants at time of analysis was 4.2 years.|(Phase II) Percentage of Participants With Complete or Partial Response of the Primary Site After Chemoradiation Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1, Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions; Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., 2-4 weeks after treatment (approximately week 10-14)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of IMRT, paclitaxel, and pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride) suspension. (Run-in component) II. To evaluate and compare overall survival at 1 year from study registration. (Phase II component)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate local-regional control at 6 and 12 months. (Phase II component) II. To evaluate the rate of grade 4 (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 \[CTCAE, v. 4.0\]) hemorrhage, grade 4 febrile neutropenia, or any grade 5 adverse event assessed to be definitely, probably, or possibly related to the induction or concurrent treatment components of the protocol regimen. (Phase II component) III. To evaluate the rates of other adverse events (CTCAE, v. 4.0) assessed to be definitely, probably, or possibly related to the induction or concurrent treatment components of the protocol regimen. (Phase II component) IV. To evaluate the rate of treatment discontinuation due to toxicity during the induction or concurrent treatment components of the protocol regimen. (Phase II component) V. To evaluate response (as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\]) of the primary site following the treatment component in subjects with measurable disease prior to chemoradiation. (Phase II component)

OUTLINE:

RUN-IN COMPONENT: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour once weekly and pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 2-3 weeks. Patients then receive concurrent paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and pazopanib hydrochloride PO QD for 6-7 weeks (or until radiation treatment is completed) and intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) 5 days per week for 6.5 weeks (total of 66 Gy in 33 fractions). Beginning 25-31 days after the completion of IMRT, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and pazopanib hydrochloride PO QD. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 cycles (for patients with no measurable disease) or continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (for patients with measurable disease).

RANDOMIZED PHASE II COMPONENT: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and pazopanib hydrochloride PO QD for 2-3 weeks. Patients then receive concurrent paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and pazopanib hydrochloride PO QD for 6-7 weeks (or until radiation treatment is completed) and IMRT 5 days per week for 6.5 weeks (total of 66 Gy in 33 fractions). Beginning 25-31 days after the completion of IMRT, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and pazopanib hydrochloride PO QD. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 cycles (for patients with no measurable disease) or continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (for patients with measurable disease).

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and placebo PO QD for 2-3 weeks. Patients then receive concurrent paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and placebo PO QD for 6-7 weeks (or until radiation treatment is completed) and IMRT 5 days per week for 6.5 weeks (total of 66 Gy in 33 fractions). Beginning 25-31 days after the completion of IMRT, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once weekly and placebo PO QD. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 cycles (for patients with no measurable disease) or continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (for patients with measurable disease).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.