The Effects of Neoadjuvant Metformin on Tumour Cell Proliferation and Tumour Progression in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
This is a single arm, non-randomized phase II study of neoadjuvant metformin in resectable PDAC. Twenty patients will be enrolled and treated with metformin 500 mg BD for a minimum of 7 days, until 2 days prior to surgery. Patients will undergo laboratory investigations at baseline, prior to surgery and 4-10 weeks after surgery. Patients eligible for and consented to the optional MRI substudy will undergo diffusion-weighted MRI 1 to 14 days before surgery.

At surgery, resected tumour and normal tissue will be collected and banked. FFPE specimens will be used for sectioning, histological analysis and IHC for Ki67 (cell proliferation marker), pAMPK, ACC targets, p53 and mTOR targets, apoptotic markers (Bax, Bcl-2, caspases 3, 8 and 9). Fresh frozen tumour and matched normal tissue samples will be used for western blot analysis of insulin and IGF receptors, total and activated ERK and Akt, and RNAseq analysis. Pre-metformin biopsy samples will be retrieved for molecular analysis.

Fasting blood samples at baseline and before surgery will be analyzed for glucose and insulin levels. Plasma and whole blood will also be processed and banked for circulating tumour DNA analysis. Urine samples will be sent for metabolomic profiling.
Resectable Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Metformin Hydrochloride 500Mg Tablet
The effect of neoadjuvant metformin treatment on tumour cell proliferation in PDAC tumours, Assessment of Ki-67 fraction as assessed by IHC of pre- and post-metformin tumour samples., 6 months
R0 resection rates in patients undergoing curative PDAC resection, Proportion of patients with R0 resections., 6 months|The effect of metformin on glucose and insulin metabolism as assessed by serum marker, fasting GGT (mmol/L), The marker of glucose and insulin metabolism will be reported with pre- and post-metformin values compared., 6 months|The effect of metformin on glucose and insulin metabolism as assessed by serum marker, fasting glucose (mmol/L), The marker of glucose and insulin metabolism will be reported with pre- and post-metformin values compared., 6 months|The effect of metformin on glucose and insulin metabolism as assessed by serum marker, fasting insulin (mU/L), The marker of glucose and insulin metabolism will be reported with pre- and post-metformin values compared., 6 months|The effect of metformin on glucose and insulin metabolism as assessed by serum marker, HOMA index, HOMA index is calculated from serum glucose and insulin. The marker of glucose and insulin metabolism will be reported with pre- and post-metformin values compared., 6 months|The effect of metformin on glucose and insulin metabolism as assessed by clinical marker, weight (kg), The clinical marker will be reported with pre- and post-metformin values compared., 6 months|The effect of metformin on metabolomic profile of pre- and post-metformin samples, Serum and urine metabolomic profile.

Comparison of metabolite levels in pre-and post-metformin samples., 6 months|Transcriptome sequencing (RNAseq) of pre- and post-treatment tumour samples., To investigate the molecular signatures associated with metformin response

Comparison of gene expression in pre-metformin biopsy samples and post-metformin resected tumour samples. Expression of altered genes to be validated by IHC in tumour sections., 6 months|Plasma ctDNA, measured as percentage of mutant to total DNA fragments in plasma, To assess the presence of ctDNA in resectable PDAC, and dynamic changes following treatment with metformin and surgical resection

Proportion of patients with detectable plasma ctDNA at baseline. Comparison of values pre- and post-metformin and 4-10 weeks after surgery., 6 months|Correlation between imaging and pathologic parameters, To explore the correlation between apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) on MRI and pathologic findings.

ADC values will be individually compared to tumour differentiation and Ki-67 fraction on pathologic examination., 6 months
This is a single arm, non-randomized phase II study of neoadjuvant metformin in resectable PDAC. Twenty patients will be enrolled and treated with metformin 500 mg BD for a minimum of 7 days, until 2 days prior to surgery. Patients will undergo laboratory investigations at baseline, prior to surgery and 4-10 weeks after surgery. Patients eligible for and consented to the optional MRI substudy will undergo diffusion-weighted MRI 1 to 14 days before surgery.

At surgery, resected tumour and normal tissue will be collected and banked. FFPE specimens will be used for sectioning, histological analysis and IHC for Ki67 (cell proliferation marker), pAMPK, ACC targets, p53 and mTOR targets, apoptotic markers (Bax, Bcl-2, caspases 3, 8 and 9). Fresh frozen tumour and matched normal tissue samples will be used for western blot analysis of insulin and IGF receptors, total and activated ERK and Akt, and RNAseq analysis. Pre-metformin biopsy samples will be retrieved for molecular analysis.

Fasting blood samples at baseline and before surgery will be analyzed for glucose and insulin levels. Plasma and whole blood will also be processed and banked for circulating tumour DNA analysis. Urine samples will be sent for metabolomic profiling.