HIPEC Combined Gastrectomy in Patients With Advanced Gastric Cancer Received Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
Patients with stage cT3-4N+M0 gastric cancer were recommended to receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy before radical surgery in terms of the eradication of micrometastasis in addition to local control, higher compliance with intensive chemotherapy, and avoidance of futile surgery by detection of initially invisible distant metastasis after rapid disease progression. However, in some studies, gastrectomy followed by neoadjuvant chemotherapy failed to demonstrate survival benefits for these patients. And peritoneal recurrence was the most common and devastating reason. Hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) was introduced for peritoneal cancer last century. A few studies suggested HIPEC could improve prognosis in patients with limited peritoneal metastasis from various cancer. In summary, we conducted this study to confirm the efficacy and safety of HIPEC after gastrectomy in patients with advanced gastric cancer received neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Gastric Cancer|Peritoneal Metastases
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: HIPEC
Peritoneal recurrence, 3 years|OS, overall survival, 3 years
DFS, disease free survival, 3 years|Adverse Events, Number and degree of Adverse Events, 3 years
Patients with stage cT3-4N+M0 gastric cancer were recommended to receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy before radical surgery in terms of the eradication of micrometastasis in addition to local control, higher compliance with intensive chemotherapy, and avoidance of futile surgery by detection of initially invisible distant metastasis after rapid disease progression. However, in some studies, gastrectomy followed by neoadjuvant chemotherapy failed to demonstrate survival benefits for these patients. And peritoneal recurrence was the most common and devastating reason. Hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) was introduced for peritoneal cancer last century. A few studies suggested HIPEC could improve prognosis in patients with limited peritoneal metastasis from various cancer. In summary, we conducted this study to confirm the efficacy and safety of HIPEC after gastrectomy in patients with advanced gastric cancer received neoadjuvant chemotherapy.