Understanding of Genetics by Men At Risk for Prostate Cancer
With this greater certainty regarding prognosis, men with localized prostate cancer are now equipped with make better treatment planning decisions. This study is designed to investigate the understanding of prognostic genetic technology in African American and rural White men at risk for localized prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Focus group analyses
Estimate Genetic Literacy, The Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Genetic - Short Form: An 8-item measure to asses adult literacy in genetics will be used., Baseline|Estimate Genetic Literacy, The Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Genetic - Short Form: An 8-item measure to asses adult literacy in genetics will be used., Pre-intervention|Estimate Genetic Literacy, The Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Genetic - Short Form: An 8-item measure to asses adult literacy in genetics will be used., Immediately after the intervention|Prostate Cancer Genetic Understanding, The Prostate Cancer Genetic Literacy Application (PCGLA) Educational Video, which was developed for this research, will be used as the study educational intervention. Prostate Cancer Genetic understanding will be assess with an 18-item knowledge prostate cancer genetic survey. The items are True or False., Baseline|Focus Group Discussion, A semi-structured focus group discussion about the Prostate Cancer Genetic Literacy Application (PCGLA) educational video., Baseline|Focus Group Discussion, A semi-structured focus group discussion about the Prostate Cancer Genetic Literacy Application (PCGLA) educational video., Immediately after the intervention
Prostate Cancer Knowledge Scale, The Prostate Cancer Knowledge Scales a 12-item self-report measure developed to assess men's knowledge of prostate cancer risk factors, symptoms, prevention, screening, and treatment. Response options were multiple choice or true/false with each question also including an I don't know response option. Scoring was based on the percentage of questions answered correctly and ranged from 0 to 100., Baseline|Prostate Cancer Knowledge Scale, The Prostate Cancer Knowledge Scales a 12-item self-report measure developed to assess men's knowledge of prostate cancer risk factors, symptoms, prevention, screening, and treatment. Response options were multiple choice or true/false with each question also including an I don't know response option. Scoring was based on the percentage of questions answered correctly and ranged from 0 to 100., Pre-intervention|Prostate Cancer Knowledge Scale, The Prostate Cancer Knowledge Scales a 12-item self-report measure developed to assess men's knowledge of prostate cancer risk factors, symptoms, prevention, screening, and treatment. Response options were multiple choice or true/false with each question also including an I don't know response option. Scoring was based on the percentage of questions answered correctly and ranged from 0 to 100., Immediately after the intervention|Demographic Characteristics, Patients will be asked ended-questions to assess (1) race, (2) age, (3) marital status, (4) employment status, (5) current and/or past prostate cancer diagnoses, (6) occupation, (7) level of education, and 8) income., Baseline
Novel genomic technology, such as microarray analyses and next-generation sequencing, have improved the understanding of prostate cancer biology and prognosis. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN), in 2016, recommended that patients and clinicians consider tissue-based genetic tests for localized prostate cancer. However, while much enthusiasm currently exits for the rapidly increasing field of genomic medicine, the use of multi-gene mRNA expression panels raises the potential for further divergence in prostate cancer treatment outcomes by race and low socioeconomic status. We know that health disparities persist in low income groups despite the existence of evidence-based guidelines and that adoption of state-of-the-art methods often lag behind in these groups.

The goals of this study are to explore how men at risk for localized prostate cancer comprehend prognostic genetic technology, and examine how an educational video about genetics impacts patient-caregiver communication of prognostic genetic technology. The study rationale is that without direct attention to genomic comprehension, the enthusiasm that exists in the rapidly increasing field of prostate cancer genomic medicine may not translate into health benefits for men with localized prostate cancer. The central hypotheses are men with lower levels of education will demonstrate a severe lack of genomic comprehension of tissue-based genetic tests for localized prostate cancer; and tailored prostate cancer education will significantly improve communication in a low literacy population.

The study approach is innovative because it applies a mixed-methods community-engagement research framework to explore how African American and rural White men at risk for localized prostate cancer, comprehend and interpret data generated from genetic technology. The proposed research is significant because of its potential to improve public health by improving the understanding of prognostic genetics in minority, low income, and rural populations, and engage and educate these diverse communities about genomics.