MRI-Mapped Dose-Escalated Salvage Radiotherapy Post-Prostatectomy: The MAPS Trial
1. The investigators hypothesize that increasing radiation dose to the functional MRI-defined lesion in the prostate bed will result in an improved initial complete response (reduction in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) to \< 0.1 ng/mL), which is related to long-term outcome biochemically.
2. Biomarker expression levels differ in the DCE-MRI enhancing and non-enhancing tumor regions (when applicable).
3. 10-15% of men undergoing RT have free circulating DNA (fcDNA) or tumor cells (CTC) that are related to an adverse treatment outcome.
4. Prostate cancer-related anxiety will be reduced in the MRI targeted SRT arm, because the patients will be aware that the dominant tumor will be targeted with higher radiation dose (compared to those pts who were treated on standard arm prior to its closure).
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
RADIATION: Standard Salvage Radiation Treatment (SSRT)|RADIATION: Mapped Tumor Salvage RT (MTSRT)
PSA Response Rate, Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) response rate is defined as the percentage of study patients with PSA less than 0.1 ng/mL at 21 months after completion of study treatment., Up to 23 months
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Toxicity, Incidence of treatment-emergent toxicity in study participants. Toxicity is defined as adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs)Acute toxicity is defined as toxicity occurring during treatment and within three months of completing treatment. Late toxicity is toxicity occurring more than three months after treatment completion. Toxicity will be assessed using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 8 months|Health-Related Quality of Life Scores: EPIC SF-12, Health-related Quality of Life (HRQOL) will be measured using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite and Medical Outcomes Study SF-12 (EPIC SF-12) to evaluate patient function and satisfaction after prostate cancer treatment. Response options for each item form a Likert scale, and multi-item scale scores are transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores representing better HRQOL., Up to 65 months|Health-Related Quality of Life Scores: MAX-PC, Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) will be measured using the scores on the Modified 18-item Memorial Anxiety Scale for Prostate Cancer (MAX-PC) from pre-treatment to post-treatment. The scale consists of 18 items (e.g. "I thought about prostate cancer even though I didn't mean to.") scored on a scale from 0 ("not at all") to 3 ("often"). Total scores range from 0 to 54, with higher scores indicating higher levels of anxiety., Up to 65 months|Health-Related Quality of Life Scores: IPSS, Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) will be measured using the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) to evaluate patient urinary function and quality of life. There are 7 questions related to urinary function. Responses are on a scale from 0 ("not at all") to 5 ("almost always"), with higher scores indicating higher levels of urinary dysfunction. There is 1 quality of life question related to urinary symptoms. Responses are on a scale from 0 ("delighted") to 6 ("terrible")., Up to 65 months|Biochemical and Clinical Failure, The cumulative incidence of biochemical or clinical failure allowing for competing risk as needed. Clinical failure is defined as at least a 25% increase in the size of the tumor relative to the smallest volume recorded, or new extension of tumor beyond the capsule, or re-extension of tumor beyond the capsule after initial regression, or urinary obstructive symptoms with carcinoma found at transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP). Biochemical failure is defined as PSA ≥ nadir + 2 ng/mL., Up to 65 months|Failure-free Survival (FFS), Rate of failure-free survival in study participants. Failure-free survival is defined as the elapsed time from start of radiotherapy to first documented evidence of biochemical or clinical failure or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. In the absence of any event defining failure, follow-up time will be censored at the date of last documented failure-free status., Up to 65 months|Overall Survival (OS), Rate of overall survival in study participants. Overall survival is defined as the elapsed time from start of radiotherapy to death from any cause. For surviving patients, follow-up will be censored at the date of last contact., Up to 65 months|Measurement of Tissue Biomarker Expression, The distribution and degree of expression of tissue biomarkers by ultrasound-directed biopsies for patients who choose to undergo the optional biopsies. Quantification of the amount of the biomarker specific immunohistochemical staining in the area of tumor., Up to 65 months|Incidence and Relationship of Circulating DNA and Tumor Cells to Tissue Biomarkers, To determine the incidence and relationship of circulating DNA and tumor cells to tissue biomarkers and initial complete biochemical response., Up to 65 months
Phase 3 arms I (SSRT) and II (MTSRT) were closed. Study recruitment was suspended until re-opening as a single-arm Phase 2 (MTSRT) study.