Neoadjuvant Pembrolizumab With a Watch-and-wait Strategy for dMMR/MSI-H Localized Colon Cancer: PREMICES Study.
The goal of this investigational, multicenter, open-label randomized, two-stage phase II study is to evaluate neoadjuvant pembrolizumab with a watch-and-wait approach in patients with localized deficient mismatch repair / high microsatellite instability (dMMR/MSI-H) colorectal cancer (CRC). The PREMICES trial is based on the hypothesis that non-operative management is effective for dMMR/MSI-H localized CRC when treated with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab.

Eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either pembrolizumab with a watch-and-wait approach (experimental arm A) or the standard strategy of surgical resection ± adjuvant chemotherapy (arm B).
Colon Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab Injection [Keytruda]|PROCEDURE: Watch-and-wait approach|PROCEDURE: Surgery|DRUG: Adjuvant chemotherapy
The rate of success of the experimental strategy at 6 months or after two successive colonoscopies (corresponding to timepoint at 6 months from the experimental strategy) following randomization., The success at 6 months is defined as an absence of death, of disease progression, or of decision to perform surgery of the primary tumor for residual cells on biopsies, or for any other reason., 6 months
The rate of strategy success at 24 months, The rate of strategy success at 24 months after randomization in the experimental arm, 24 months|Incidence of Adverse Events (Safety assessment), Safety (according to NCI CTCAE v 5.0) of experimental strategy, Up to 4 years|Overall surival (OS) at 6, 12 and 24 months in both study arms, OS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death from any cause. Survival data will be censored at the last follow-up., Up to 24 months|Event-free survival (EFS) at 6, 12 and 24 months in both study arms, EFS defined as the time from randomization to the first of the following events:

* In experimental arm: death of all causes, PD, second primary CRC; decision to perform surgery of the primary tumor for residual cells on biopsies, or for any other reason.
* In arm B: death of all causes, second primary CRC, local or metastatic relapse, whichever occurred first., Up to 24 months|30-day and 90-day postoperative morbidity for patients who underwent surgery in both study arms, Postoperative morbidity is defined as a complication occurring during the hospital stay or within 30 or 90 days after surgery. Postoperative complications will be documented in a standardized form and their severity., Up to 90 days post-surgery|Time to deterioration (TTD) of health-related quality of life (HRQoL), TTD of HRQoL will be used to longitudinally analyze all HRQoL data (integrating all HRQoL measures). It is defined as the time interval between randomization in the study to the observation of a first deterioration of at least 10 points minimal clinically important difference (MCID) as compared to the baseline score. Meassurements at baseline, treatment visits, evaluation visits, end of treatment visit, and follow-up in both study arms., Up to 4 years|Endoscopic complete response (ecR) assessment, Endoscopy, accompanied by tissue biopsy, will be performed at months 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24 as a part of the watch-and-wait approach in the experimental arm. Endoscopy with biopsy of potential macroscopic lesions will be performed at 12 months in the arm B, as part of the standard of care.

Endoscopic tumor response will be categorized as follows: clinical complete response (cCR), no visualization of tumor, white or red scar; nearly-cCR, minimal residual nodularity or stenosis; non-cCR, any ulcer with a necrotic bed regardless size, a definite residual mass, or nodularity. Clinical complete response is defined as the complete disappearance of the tumor and/or the absence of residual tumor cells on imaging, endoscopy, and biopsy., Up to 24 months|Tumor regression grade (TRG) assessment, TRG according to the Ryan score and the 8th American Joint Committee on Cancer tumor, node, metastasis (AJCC TNM) pathologic staging system in patients randomized in the experimental arm and who underwent surgery., Up to 24 months
dMMR/MSI-H is a key biomarker for predicting the success of immune checkpoint inhibitors in colorectal cancer (CRC). Pembrolizumab has shown improved outcomes for patients with metastatic CRC, becoming the new standard of care. Neoadjuvant immunotherapy has demonstrated high rates of complete pathological responses in both metastatic and localized CRC, with promising results in non-surgical approaches. Studies support using a "watch-and-wait" strategy after immunotherapy, potentially avoiding surgery. These findings are reshaping treatment strategies for dMMR/MSI-H CRC, particularly regarding organ preservation and non-operative management.

The PREMICES study evaluates the efficacy of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab combined with a watch-and-wait approach for treating localized dMMR/MSI-H CRC. It investigates non-operative management as a potential strategy for achieving a complete clinical response in dMMR/MSI-H localized CRC without the need for surgery.