Aerobic Versus Resistive Training on Functional Capacity in Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Sixty patients with AML from both sexes aged from 35-45 years were selected from hematology department in Nasser Institute Hospital where the study was conducted. Patients were randomly assigned into two groups equal in number. Group (A) underwent aerobic exercises in the form of cycling with 50-60% of maximum heart rate. Group (B) underwent resistive training conducted in the form of a series of exercises using free weights, and dumbles. Sessions were conducted three times /week for eight weeks. Six minutes' walk test (6MWT), 10 repetitions maximum test (10 RM), ventilatory function test, fatigue and quality of life (QOL) scales were used to assess functional capacity in both groups.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission
OTHER: Aerobic exercise
Six minutes walking Distance, which used to measure the distance the patient was able to walk over a total of six minutes According to American thorax society guidelines; patients were instructed to walk as fast as long as possible , in a 30 meters obstacle free corridor limited by turnaround cones and distance was calculated, It is performed before and after the study(8 weeks interval) for both groups|10 repetition maximum test, which the greatest amount of weight a person can lift number of times. The amount of weight that can be lifted exactly 10 times is 10 RM, It is performed before and after the study(8 weeks interval) for both groups|Vital capacity, was measured by using electronic spirometry used to conduct ventilatory function testing, It is performed before and after the study(8 weeks interval) for both groups
Maximum oxygen consumption, Results of (6MWT) was used to calculate Vo2 max by using Cahalin equation as follows; Vo2 max = 0.03x distance in meters +3.98, in which distance is obtained from (6MWT), It is performed before and after the study(8 weeks interval) for both groups|Fatigue assessment scale (FAS), FAS is a 10-item scale evaluating symptoms of chronic fatigue, It is performed before and after the study(8 weeks interval) for both groups|Quality of life questionnaire (QOL), was used to evaluate the quality of life before and after training for both groups.The Quality of Life Instrument (CANCER PATIENT/CANCER SURVIVOR VERSION) is a forty one-item ordinal scale. The scoring should be based on a scale of 0 = worst outcome to 10 = best outcome, It is performed before and after the study(8 weeks interval) for both groups
Aerobic Ex Group: Included 30 patients who underwent aerobic training with 50 %-60% of maximum heart rate in the form of cycling by Bicycle ergometer for eight weeks, three sessions/week.

Resistive Ex Group: Included 30 patients who underwent a resistive training which were conducted in the form of a series of exercises using free weights, and dumbles to increase the strength of arms, pectoral muscles, abdominal, back muscles and gluteal region. Patients carried out three sets of 20-30 dynamic repetitions or static isometric exercises for 40-60 seconds for each muscle group and rested 1-2 min between series. Sessions were conducted three sessions/week for eight weeks.