Minimally Invasive Pelvic Exenteration in Vaginal or Cervical Cancer Recurrence
The aim of this clinical trial is to assess the oncologic safety of minimally invasive pelvic exenteration in patients with recurrence or persistence of cervical or vaginal cancer with pelvic location, suitable for pelvic exenteration according to the ESGO guidelines (European Society of Gynecological Oncology). The primary aim is to assess the 3-year disease-free survival (DFS). The secondary aim is to assess the 3-year overall survival (OS), the intraoperative and post-operative complication rate, and the patient's quality of life.
Cervical Cancers|Vaginal Cancers
PROCEDURE: Minimally invasive pelvic exenteration
Disease free survival (DFS), The primary aim is to assess the 3-year disease free survival, From the enrollment for the following three years.
Overall survival (OS), One of the secondary aim is to assess the overall survival., Survival time is calculated from the date of surgery until the date of death from any cause, or for patients still alive to the date of last clinical follow-up or contact, assessed up to 100 months.|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL), Quality of life will be assessed by questionnaires completed by study participants preferably as electronical patient reported outcome measures or during the clinic visit.

Questionnaires comprise the EORTC QLQ-30 (version 3.0) and EORTC QLQCX24. EORTC: European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer QLQ: Quality-of-Life questionnaire, At baseline and one month, six months, one years and two years after surgery.|Intraoperative complication rate, Intraoperative complications will be assessed with CTCAE 5.0 classification (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events)., During the procedure|Post-operative complication rate, Post-operative complications: will be assessed with Clavien-Dindo classification, One month and six months after surgery
Patients will be considered pre-operatively eligible in case of recurrence/persistence of cervical or vaginal cancer with pelvic location, suitable for pelvic exenteration according to the ESGO guidelines (European Society of Gynecological Oncology). Histological diagnosis of recurrent or persistent disease obtained with biopsy performed during examination under anesthesia or US-guided biopsy, or RECIST 1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) criteria of progressive disease are required, as by standard clinical practice. All patients will undergo MRI pelvic scan and PET/CT scan within one month before the surgery, as by standard clinical practice. After obtaining oral and written informed consent, patients will be registered. Pelvic exenteration will be performed with the aim of removing a single specimen with negative surgical margins.

A mini-laparotomy of up to 7 cm will be allowed to complete the reconstructive phase of the procedure.

Registration data has to be entered to an electronic Case Report Form (eCRF). The Principal Investigator (PI) of the study will independently take responsibility for the development of an electronic Case Report Form (CRF) for data collection.