Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) Gastrointestinal (GI) Tolerability Study
The objective of the study is to evaluate and compare the frequency and severity of GI adverse events in different dose administration regimens. The patient population consists of low or intermediate (int-1) risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients with transfusional iron overload. The study patients are randomized to either a morning dose of 20 mg/kg/day deferasirox or an evening dose of the same. Patients are then followed up for 6 months for any GI events and are assessed using patient reported outcomes tools e.g. a patient diary.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Transfusional Iron Overload
DRUG: Deferasirox
Difference in the Frequency of Overall Newly Occurring GI Adverse Events (AEs) in the Two Treatment Arms, Study was prematurely terminated and not powered for efficacy. Frequency of GI AEs during the overall study period is available in the AE tables reported in the safety section., 3 months
Difference in Frequency of Overall Newly Occurring GI AEs Between the Two Treatment Groups at Month 6., Study was prematurely terminated and not powered for efficacy., 6 months|Difference in Frequency of Specific Commonly Reported GI AEs Between the Two Treatment Groups, Study was prematurely terminated and not powered for efficacy., months 3 and 6.|Difference in Severity of Overall GI AEs Between the Two Treatment Groups, Study was prematurely terminated and not powered for efficacy., months 3 and 6.|Difference in Severity of Specific Commonly Reported GI Symptoms Between the Two Treatment Groups, Study was prematurely terminated and not powered for efficacy., months 3 and 6|Difference in Frequency and Severity of All Non-GI AEs Between the Two Treatment Groups, Study was prematurely terminated and not powered for efficacy., months 3 and 6|the Difference Between the Time From Baseline to the First Occurrence of GI AEs Between the Two Treatment Groups, Study was prematurely terminated and not powered for efficacy., 3 months, 6 months|Difference in Severity of GI Symptoms, Bowel Habits and Level of Satisfaction From the Patient's Perspective Between the Two Treatment Groups, 3 months, 6 months|Difference in Reducing Serum Ferritin After Each Month of Study Drug Administration Between the Two Groups, Study was prematurely terminated and not powered for efficacy., 3 months, 6 months
The objective of the study is to evaluate and compare the frequency and severity of GI adverse events in different dose administration regimens. The patient population consists of low or intermediate (int-1) risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients with transfusional iron overload. The study patients are randomized to either a morning dose of 20 mg/kg/day deferasirox or an evening dose of the same. Patients are then followed up for 6 months for any GI events and are assessed using patient reported outcomes tools e.g. a patient diary.