Phase 1 Study of SF1126 in Combination With Nivolumab in Patients With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Primary Objectives:

1. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum recommended dose of SF1126 in combination with nivolumab in adult patients with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) HCC and Child-Pugh A or Child-Pugh B7 cirrhosis.
2. To determine the recommended phase II dose of SF1126 in combination with nivolumab in patients with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) HCC and Child-Pugh A or Child-Pugh B7 cirrhosis.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To describe the safety and tolerability of SF1126 in adult patients with underlying liver disease by ongoing evaluation of adverse events.
2. To determine pharmacokinetics in HCC patients.
3. To assess the effect of SF1126 in combination with nivolumab on progression-free survival and overall survival.

Primary Endpoint:

The primary endpoint is the rate of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) at within 56 days of starting treatment, and the maximum tolerated dose or maximum recommended dose of SF1126 in combination with nivolumab.

Secondary Endpoints:

1. Adverse events related to SF1126 (description, timing, grade \[CTCAE v4.03\], severity, seriousness, and relatedness).
2. Pharmacokinetics in HCC patients.
3. The proportion of patients remaining progression-free by radiographic criteria as assessed by RESIST v1.1 at 4 months, and, as available, median progression-free survival and overall survival estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: SF1126|DRUG: Nivolumab
Rate of dose limiting toxicities, A dose limiting toxicity is a clinically significant adverse event (AE) occurring within 56 days of investigational treatment that is considered by the investigator to be possibly, probably, or definitely related to SF1126, Occurring within 56 days of investigational treatment
Treatment-emergent adverse events, To describe treatment-emergent adverse events (description, timing, grade \[CTCAE v4.03\], severity, seriousness, and relatedness), 3 years|Peak plasma concentration (Cmax), Collection of plasma samples for SF1126 Cmax studies is required during cycle 1 for all patients during both the dose escalation and expansion cohort phases of the study, 3 years|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), Collection of plasma samples for SF1126 AUC studies is required during cycle 1 for all patients during both the dose escalation and expansion cohort phases of the study, 3 years|Progression-free survival, The proportion of patients who remain progression free (according to RECIST1.1) after 4 months on study, 4 months
SF1126 is a dual inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (pan-isoform specific) and bromodomain-containing protein 4 (BRD4) which simultaneously disrupts two key MYC-mediating factors that promote cancer cell growth.

Nivolumab is a humanized, IgG4 isotype monoclonal antibody that binds to PD-1 and blocks binding of PD-1 to its ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2. Nivolumab monotherapy is approved in the US for HCC previously treated with sorafenib.

Funding source: FDA OOPD