PediCARE Health Equity Intervention in High-Risk Neuroblastoma
This is a randomized Phase II trial evaluating the addition of the Pediatric Cancer Resource Equity (PediCARE) health equity intervention to usual supportive care for poverty-exposed children with newly diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma.

The names of the intervention groups in this research study are:

* Usual supportive care
* PediCARE + usual supportive care
Neuroblastoma|High-risk Neuroblastoma|Pediatric Cancer|Disparities|Financial Stress|Poverty
BEHAVIORAL: PediCARE Intervention
Change in Kessler-6 Psychological Distress Scale Score, As measured by the Kessler-6 Psychological Distress Scale (K6), a 6-item measure for the level of psychological distress in the past month. Responses are scored on a 5-point Likert scare with answers ranging from 0 "None of the time" to 4 "All of the time," and with a total score range of 0 - 4. Scores \> or = 7 suggest "high" distressed and those \> or = 13 meet criteria for serious or debilitating psychological distress. A t-test of differences in mean change scores of parent/guardian psychological distress from T1 (baseline) to T2 (3 months) will be used to compare across PediCARE and usual supportive care arms. The distribution of parent psychological distress scores across PediCARE and usual supportive care arms will also be descriptively characterized. The descriptive analyses will be intention-to-treat, defined as all randomized participants with at least one post-baseline contact or follow-up measure., At baseline and 3 months
Proportion of Enrolled Participants (Feasibility), Feasibility of conducting a centrally-administered companion health equity intervention study among COG trial-enrolled participants will be described using proportions and 95% confidence intervals. Successful feasibility is defined as \>75% consent to participation and randomization and \<20% attrition. Feasibility metrics will be collected and monitored in real time throughout the duration of the study (about 5 years). An interim analysis for early stopping will also be conducted halfway through accrual (n=40 participants) to assess futility of the feasibility endpoint., 5 years|Change in Mean Household Material Hardship (HMH) Score, Household Material Hardship (HMH) information will via parent/guardian-completed survey instruments using standardized measures of housing, food, utility, and transportation insecurity. HMH scores will be calculated based on parent/guardian responses and will range from 0-4 based on the number of discrete areas of insecurity endorsed by participants. A t-test of differences in mean HMH change scores from T1 (baseline) to T2 (month 3) will be used to compare across PediCARE and usual supportive care arms. Investigators will also characterize the distribution between T1 and T2 HMH scores across PediCARE and usual supportive care arms on the ordinal scale from 0 to 4 using a chi-square test., At baseline and 3-months
This is a randomized Phase II trial evaluating the addition of the Pediatric Cancer Resource Equity (PediCARE) health equity intervention to usual supportive care for poverty-exposed children with newly diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma.

Participants will be randomized into one of two groups: Usual Supportive Care vs. PediCARE + Usual Supportive Care. Randomization means a participant is placed into a group by chance.

Participation in this research study is expected to last 6-months.

It is expected about 130 people will participate in this research study.