Trastuzumab Deruxtecan (T-DXd) in Patients Who Have Hormone Receptor-negative and Hormone Receptor-positive HER2-low or HER2 IHC 0 Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) in participants with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-low or HER2 immunohistochemistry (IHC) 0 (who are both hormone receptor \[HR\]-negative and HR-positive) unresectable and/or metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab Deruxtecan
Time From the Start of T-DXd to Initiation of Subsequent Anticancer Treatment (TTNT), TTNT is defined as the time interval from the date of first dose of T-DXd to the initiation of the next anticancer treatment or death due to any cause., Until subsequent therapy or death, assessed up to 24 months
Real-World Progression Free Survival (PFS), Real-world PFS is defined as time from date of first dose of T-DXd to time of disease progression per investigator assessment based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 or death due to any cause., Until progression or death, assessed up to 24 months|Time From Start of T-DXd to Discontinuation of T-DXd or Death (TTD), TTD is defined as the time interval from the date of first dose of T-DXd to the date of discontinuation of T-DXd or death due to any cause., Until treatment discontinuation or death, up to 24 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants with a best overall response (BOR) of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to the investigator and per RECIST version 1.1 criteria., Until progression, assessed up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), TEAEs are graded according to National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) v5.0. A TEAE is defined as an adverse event (AE) that occurs, having been absent before the first dose of study drug, or has worsened in severity or seriousness after initiating the study drug until 47 days after the last dose of the study drug., Up to follow up period, up to 24 months|Mean Change from Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaires (EORTC-QLQ)-C30 Score, Change from baseline in the EORTC-QLQ-C30 scale scores range from 0-100. For functioning and global health status/ QoL scales, higher scores indicate better functioning or global health status/QoL. For symptom scales, higher scores indicate greater symptom burden., Assessed up to 24 months|Mean Change from Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaires (EORTC-QLQ)-BR45 Score, Change from baseline in the EORTC QLQ-BR45 scale scores range from 0-100. For functioning and global health status/ QoL scales, higher scores indicate better functioning or global health status/QoL. For symptom scales, higher scores indicate greater symptom burden., Assessed up to 24 months|Time to First and Definitive Deterioration in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaires (EORTC-QLQ) Scales, Time to first and definitive deterioration in EORTC-QLQ scales. Scale scores range from 0-100. For functioning and global health status/ QoL scales, higher scores indicate better functioning or global health status/QoL. For symptom scales, higher scores indicate greater symptom burden., Assessed up to 24 months|Mean Change from Baseline in EuroQol Questionnaire-5 Dimensions-5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L), Change from baseline in EQ-5D-5L. The EQ-5D-5L is a health-related QoL questionnaire based on five dimensions of health: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension contains five levels: no problems, slight, moderate, severe, and extreme problems. The EQ-5D-5L results can be converted into a single utility value. Utility values range from 0 to 1, with 1 corresponding to perfect health and 0 corresponding to a health status equivalent to death. In addition, participants can provide an overall rating of their current health status using a visual analog scale ranging from 0 (worse) to 100 (better)., Assessed up to 24 months|Mean Change From Baseline in EuroQol Questionnaire-5 Dimensions-5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L) Index Score, Change from baseline in EQ-5D-5L index score. The EQ-5D-5L index score ranges from less than 0 (worse) to 1 (better), with higher scores representing a better health status., Assessed up to 24 months|Mean Change From Baseline in EuroQol Questionnaire-5 Dimensions-5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L) Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Change from baseline in EQ-5D-5L VAS. The EQ-5D-5L VAS ranging from 0 (worse) to 100 (better) is used to assess an overall rating of participant's current health status. Higher scores indicate better clinical outcomes., Assessed up to 24 months|Time to First and Definitive Deterioration in EuroQol Questionnaire-5 Dimensions-5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L) Visual Analog Scale (VAS), Time to first and definitive deterioration in EQ-5D-5L VAS. The EQ-5D-5L VAS ranging from 0 (worse) to 100 (better) is used to assess an overall rating of participant's current health status. Higher scores indicate better clinical outcomes., Assessed up to 24 months|Patient's Global Impression of Change (PGI-C) Response, The PGI-C is a single-item questionnaire asking for the participant's overall impression of changes in clinical condition from baseline (prior to study drug initiation), where 1 is "Normal" and 7 is "Severely ill". Lower scores indicate better clinical outcome., Assessed up to 24 months|Patient's Global Impression of Severity (PGI-S) Response, The PGI-S is a single-item questionnaire asking for the subject's overall impression of symptoms assessed over the past week, where 1 is "Normal" and 4 is "Severe". Lower scores indicate better clinical outcome., Assessed up to 24 months|Patient's Global Impression of Treatment Tolerability (PGI-TT) Response, The PGI-TT is a single-item questionnaire asking for the subject's overall impression of treatment tolerability over the past week, where 1 is "Not at all" and 5 is "Very much". Higher scores indicate a worse outcome., Assessed up to 24 months
The primary endpoint of interest in this study is time to next treatment (TTNT), a measure that will determine how long T-DXd allows patients to derive clinical benefit from the study drug.