Clinical Randomized Study of Concurrent Chemo-radiotherapy vs Radiotherapy Alone to Local-advanced Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC)
This trial aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety between radiotherapy alone and concurrent chemo-radiotherapy after 3-4 cycles of chemotherapy in LS-SCLC.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: concurrent chemo-radiotherapy arm
disease free survival, DFS was defined as the length of time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of relapse of SCLC or any other type of cancer or death., 3 years
overall survival, OS was defined as the length of time from the date of randomization to the date of death of various reasons., 3 years|acute and late toxic effects, acute toxic effect was defined as toxic effects less than 90 days from initiation of treatment late toxic effect was defined as toxic effects more than 90 days from initiation of treatment, 3 months and 3 years
Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) represents 15-30% of all lung malignancies in China. Limited-stage small cell lung cancer (LS-SCLC) represents approximately 40% of cases. The current standard of care in limited-stage disease is systemic chemotherapy plus concurrent thoracic radiotherapy. Early concurrent chemo-radiotherapy is recommended for patients with limited-stage SCLC based on randomized trials. But, the administration of thoracic radiotherapy requires the assessment of several factors, including the volume of the radiation port, dose of radiation, and fractionation of radiotherapy. Parts of the LS-SCLC are local advanced stage (stage Ⅲa and Ⅲb), which can not tolerate concurrent chemo-radiotherapy because of large size in tumor and extensive metastasis of lymph nodes. At present, it is usually use 3-4 cycles of introduction chemotherapy to decrease the tumor size followed by definitive radiotherapy. But it is unclear whether this scheme is tolerant well or it could improve the overall survival in patients with LS-SCLC. As a result, we designed a prospective phase II randomized controlled trial in order to compare the tolerance and therapeutic effects between radiotherapy alone and concurrent chemo-radiotherapy after 3-4 cycles of chemotherapy in LS-SCLC.