Tipifarnib in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of tipifarnib in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Tipifarnib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Refractory Anemia|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts in Transformation|Refractory Anemia With Ringed Sideroblasts|Refractory Cytopenia With Multilineage Dysplasia
DRUG: tipifarnib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
MTD defined as the next lower dose level at which 2 patients experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT) defined as grade 3 or 4 toxicity according to the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program Common Toxicity Criteria, The final analysis will report all toxicities by grade, dose, cycle, and by cumulative dose., Up to 8.5 years|Response rate, Will be reported overall and by dose level., Up to 8.5 years
FTase inhibition, Based on the shape of the relationship (e.g. linear vs saturation vs peak), a dose response analysis will be performed to describe/summarize the relationship (correlation analysis or curve-fitting)., Up to 8.5 years|Accumulation of unfarnesylated lamin B1, Based on the shape of the relationship (e.g. linear vs saturation vs peak), a dose response analysis will be performed to describe/summarize the relationship (correlation analysis or curve-fitting)., Up to 8.5 years|Accumulation of RAS proteins, Based on the shape of the relationship (e.g. linear vs saturation vs peak), a dose response analysis will be performed to describe/summarize the relationship (correlation analysis or curve-fitting)., Up to 8.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity profile and antitumor activity of the farnesyltransferase (FTase) inhibitor R115777 (tipifarnib) in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) treated on a one week on/one week off schedule.

II. To determine the effect on R115777 on a one week on/one week off schedule on FTase activity, prenylation of RAS and other substrates and on downstream effects.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive tipifarnib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.