Study of Efficacy of Ribociclib After Progression on CDK4/6 Inhibition in Patients With HR+ HER2- Advanced Breast Cancer
This is a randomized trial for patients with metastatic hormone receptor (HR)-positive human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative breast cancer who have progressed on an aromatase inhibitor plus a CDK4/6 inhibitor (either palbociclib or ribociclib) to either fulvestrant alone or fulvestrant with ribociclib (LEE-011). The purpose of the trial is to determine whether there is continued benefit for patients to remain on a CDK4/6 inhibitor at the time of switching anti-estrogen therapy. As ribociclib and palbociclib have a similar toxicity and drug profile and mechanism of action, the investigators feel that it is appropriate for patients to receive either drug with an aromatase inhibitor prior to randomization.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: LEE-011|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the interval from the time of randomization until objective disease progression (local assessment) or death from any cause. Disease status will be assessed with comprehensive radiographic studies every three treatment cycles (approximately every 12 weeks (+/- 1 week)). Disease progression as assed by RECIST 1.1 defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to approximately 30 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Evaluation of disease will be made according to RECIST criteria (version 1.1) in patients with measurable disease. As this study will enroll patients with measureable and un-measurable disease as defined by RECIST v1.1, ORR will only be assessed in evaluable patients. ORR = complete response (disappearance of all target lesions; ny pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm) + partial response (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters)., measured every 12 weeks, up to 6 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR defined as the number of participants with complete response (Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm) + partial response (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters) + stable disease (Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for disease progression, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters while on study) at ≥ 24 weeks of follow up per RESIST 1.1 criteria., Up to 24 weeks
Despite advances in early detection and therapeutic options, unresectable or metastatic breast cancer remains incurable and is one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality. Breast cancer is a molecularly heterogeneous disease. This study will be evaluating estrogen receptor (ER) expression positivity and/or progesterone receptor (PgR) positivity of breast cancer with the absence of over-expression or amplification of HER2.

Inhibitors of the cyclin dependent kinases 4 and 6 (CDK4/6) have been developed and demonstrated impressive activity in patients with ER-positive HER2-negative breast cancer with marked improvements in progression free survival. This question is asking whether CDK 4/6 inhibition should be continued with hormone therapy in patients who will be switching their hormone therapy in the metastatic breast cancer setting.