Role of the Spouse/Partner of Persons Treated With Chemotherapy for Colon Cancer
Altered quality of life in patients with stage III or IV colon cancer is well known. At their sides, their spouse/partner must also cope with the suffering caused by the disease and the upheavals that it engenders, with the treatments, in the organization of their everyday life. The physical, emotional, social and financial impact of cancer in general and its treatment on care-givers has already been studied. However, there are no data concerning the "objective burden", that is to say the nature and the magnitude of the care weighing on the spouse of persons with colon cancer. Objective is to develop and validate a questionnaire that can be completed by the spouse/partner of patients with stage III or IV colon cancer so as to evaluate the burden of the disease in everyday life. It will allow medico-social professionals to identify spouses/partners in difficulty and the needs of patients so as to offer the best support.
Colon Cancer
OTHER: Preliminary validation of the COBQoL questionnaire
Objective burden score in the dimensions of the COBQoL questionnaire with good psychometric properties, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Altered quality of life in patients with stage III or IV colon cancer is well known. At their sides, their spouse/partner must also cope with the suffering caused by the disease and the upheavals that it engenders, with the treatments, in the organization of their everyday life. The physical, emotional, social and financial impact of cancer in general and its treatment on care-givers has already been studied. However, there are no data concerning the "objective burden", that is to say the nature and the magnitude of the care weighing on the spouse of persons with colon cancer. Objective is to develop and validate a questionnaire that can be completed by the spouse/partner of patients with stage III or IV colon cancer so as to evaluate the burden of the disease in everyday life. It will allow medico-social professionals to identify spouses/partners in difficulty and the needs of patients so as to offer the best support.