Clinical Trial on Acupuncture Therapy in Patients With Gastrointestinal Neoplasms Laparoscopic Surgery
Patients accepted laparoscopic radical operation for carcinoma of colon and upper middle section of the rectum will be as the research object. Cancer patients are diagnosed based on pathology or cell biology. The trial is randomized, parallel and open. They are randomized into 2 groups: both groups receive surgery. The experimental group receives conventional treatment combine with electroacupuncture Zusanli point .etc finish operation and the contrast receives the same conventional treatment with experimental group. Clinical evaluation includes gastrointestinal tract recovery of function, pain relief, life quality improvement. Blood biochemistry tests mainly include gastrin(GAS), stress related hormone, peroxidatic reaction and the ratio of immune cells.
Gastrointestinal Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Surgery|DEVICE: Acupuncture treatment
Number of participants and classification with operation-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.03., day 1, day 3, day 5, day 7 after surgery
The quality of life questionnaire(QLQ)., Assessing in 5 grade, mainly include appetite, sleep, pain,etc., day 1, day 3, day 5, day 7 after surgery|Stress hormone in blood., Estradiol (female), progesterone (female), testosterone (male), day 2, day 7 after surgery|Immune cell number ratio in blood., Th1/Th2, Th17/Treg, day 2, day 7 after surgery
Patients accepted laparoscopic radical operation for carcinoma of colon and upper middle section of the rectum will be as the research object. Cancer patients are diagnosed based on pathology or cell biology. The trial is randomized, parallel and open. They are randomized into 2 groups: both groups receive surgery. The experimental group receives conventional treatment combine with electroacupuncture Zusanli point .etc finish operation and the contrast receives the same conventional treatment with experimental group. Clinical evaluation includes gastrointestinal tract recovery of function, pain relief, life quality improvement. Blood biochemistry tests mainly include gastrin(GAS), stress related hormone, peroxidatic reaction and the ratio of immune cells.