Phase 2 Clinical Trial of NPI-0052 in Patients With Relapsed or Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This is a Phase 2, open-label, multicenter study examining the safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, and best overall response to escalating doses of the proteasome inhibitor NPI-0052 (also known as marizomib) in patients with relapsed or relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. NPI-0052 is a novel, second generation proteasome inhibitor that prevents the breakdown of proteins involved in signal transduction which blocks growth and survival in cancer cells. The study is a Phase 2 study and is a 2-stage efficacy design in a selected subgroup of patients (Arm C) treated with the recommended phase 2 dose of NPI-0052, as determined in a previously completed Phase 1 study. The study is to evaluate the safety and any preliminary evidence of efficacy of NPI-0052 in multiple myeloma patients who have previously received carfilzomib (PR-171, Kyprolis™) and subsequently had disease progression.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: MRZ 0.5 mg/m^2
Number of Patients Exhibiting a Given Overall Response as Determined by Investigator, Disease response and progression were determined by the investigator using the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC). Overall response rate includes patients with a best response of PR of better. Stringent complete response (CR) includes immunophenotypic CR and molecular CR in addition to stringent CR., Through study completion, an average of 6.09 weeks.
Duration of MRZ Treatment, Duration of treatment is defined as the last dose date minus the first dose date of the dose cohort plus 1 expressed in weeks., Through study completion, an average of 6.09 weeks.|Number of Cycles of Marizomib (MRZ), Through study completion, an average of 6.09 weeks.|Number of Patients Receiving Marizomib (MRZ) in Each Cycle, A patient was counted in a cycle if the patient received at least one dose of study drug during the cycle., Through study completion, an average of 6.09 weeks.|Number of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Adverse events were graded using NCI-CTCAE (version 4.3). TEAEs are defined as any adverse event with an onset date between the date of first dose and 30 days after the date of last dose of any study drug.

Treatment-related adverse events are adverse events considered related to at least one study drug by the investigator (NPI-002, dexamethasone), including those with unknown relationship., Through study completion, an average of 6.09 weeks.|Number of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Adverse events were graded using NCI-CTCAE (version 4.3). TEAEs are defined as any adverse event with an onset date between the date of first dose and 30 days after the date of last dose of any study drug.

Treatment-related adverse events are adverse events considered related to at least one study drug by the investigator (NPI-002, dexamethasone), including those with unknown relationship., Through study completion, an average of 6.09 weeks.|Maximum Observed Blood Drug Concentration (Cmax), Samples collected on Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 1 Day 11.
This is a Phase 2, open-label, multicenter study examining the safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, and best overall response to escalating doses of the proteasome inhibitor NPI-0052 (also known as marizomib) in patients with relapsed or relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. NPI-0052 is a novel, second generation proteasome inhibitor that prevents the breakdown of proteins involved in signal transduction which blocks growth and survival in cancer cells. The study is a Phase 2 study and is a 2-stage efficacy design in a selected subgroup of patients (Arm C) treated with the recommended phase 2 dose of NPI-0052, as determined in a previously completed Phase 1 study. The study is to evaluate the safety and any preliminary evidence of efficacy of NPI-0052 in multiple myeloma patients who have previously received carfilzomib (PR-171, Kyprolis™) and subsequently had disease progression.