Combination Study of Prexasertib and Olaparib in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This research study is studying a combination of targeted therapies as a possible treatment for Advanced Solid Tumors.

The study interventions involved in this study are:

* LY2606368
* Olaparib
Solid Tumor
DRUG: Prexasertib|DRUG: Olaparib
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 2 months
Dose Limiting Toxicity as assessed by CTCAEv4.0, 1 month|Pharmacokinetic Sampling - Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), 2 months|Pharmacokinetic Sampling - Area Under the Plasma Concentration versus Time Curve (AUC), 2 months|Anti-Tumor Effects Of The Combination Of Prexasertib And Olaparib by RECIST 1.1, 2 months|Phospho-CDK Expression In Tumor Biopsies As A Marker Of Prexasertib Effect And Downstream Marker Of Target Engagement, 1 month|RAD51 Focus Formation and γ-H2AX Expression in tumor biopsies Post-Olaparib And Post-Combination Treatment as a marker of DNA damage, 1 month
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved LY2606368 as a treatment for any disease.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved Olaparib for ovarian cancer but it has not been approved for other uses.

LY2606368 is a checkpoint kinase 1 (CHK1) inhibitor that is being developed as a treatment for patients with advanced cancer. CHK1 inhibitors work by preventing the cancer cells from being able to repair damaged DNA (one of the building blocks of a cell) which then leads to cell death.

Olaparib is a poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor. PARP is a protein in the body that repairs damage to DNA. In cells that are rapidly growing such as cancer cells, blocking repair of DNA may be of benefit, since it will cause the cell to die.

In this research study, the investigators are combining LY2606368 with Olaparib in the hopes that it will be a safe combination and that the LY2606368 will enhance how the cancer will respond to Olaparib. In previous laboratory studies performed by treating cancer cells with a CHK1 inhibitor and a PARP inhibitor, it was found that the CHK1 inhibitor was successful in increasing efficacy.