Develop and Evaluate the Effectiveness of a Self-Care Smartphone Application on the Self-Efficacy, and Resilience Among Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer Patients Undergoing Treatment
This study was to develop and evaluate the self-efficacy and resilience of the Breast Cancer Self-Care App in newly diagnosed breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.
Breast Cancer|Breast Neoplasm|Breast Malignant Tumor|Resilience|Self-efficacy
DEVICE: The Breast Cancer Self-Care App
Self-efficacy, Use Strategies Used by People to Promote Health (SUPPH) measure self-care self-efficacy. The scale total of 29 items measure self-care self-efficacy. There are 3 sub subscales for each of the following: Stress Reduction (10 items, 5-50scores), Making Decisions (3 items, 3-15scores), Positive Attitude (16 items,16-80 scores). The range of total scores of the scale is 29-145. It shows that self-care self-efficacy increases as total points of the scale increase., 4 weeks
Resilience, Use Resilience scale 14 items (RS-14) measure individual resilience. The scale with a total of 14 items measures resilience. The range of total scores of the scale is 14-98. It shows that resilience increases as total points of the scale increase., 4 weeks
This study was to develop and evaluate the self-efficacy and resilience of the Breast Cancer Self-Care App in newly diagnosed breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. In the first phase of this study, develop a prototype the Breast Cancer Self-Care App by conducting patients interviews. In the second phase, an experimental two-group pretest-posttest quantitative study design to evaluate the self-efficacy and resilience of the Breast Cancer Self-Care App in newly diagnosed breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy. The patients were randomized to the experimental and control groups. Patients in the control group received general routine care and patients in the experimental group received general routine care plus the Breast Cancer Self-Care App intervention. Both groups completed a basic demographics, self-efficacy and resilience questionnaires at the pre-test and after four weeks.