Efficacy and Safety of Argon Plasma Coagulation in the Treatment of Patients With Hemoptysis Caused by Endobronchial Malignancies
The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy, the safety and the main predictors of success of bronchoscopic Argon Plasma Coagulation in patients with hemoptysis caused by endobronchial malignancies.
Hemoptysis|Cancer
OTHER: Argon Plasma Coagulation
Percentage of patients with bleeding cessation without recurrence at 48 after bronchoscopic Argon Plasma Coagulation, Percentage of patients with bleeding cessation without recurrence at 48 hours after bronchoscopic Argon Plasma Coagulation employed to stop hemoptysis caused by endobronchial malignancies, 48 hours
Incidence of adverse events, Incidence of adverse events following bronchoscopic Argon Plasma Coagulation in the treatment of patients with hemoptysis and endobronchial malignancies, 48 hours|Incidence of hemoptysis recurrences, Incidence of hemoptysis recurrences (number of relapses), 3,5 months|Number of patients with hemoptysis and endobronchial malignancies who are still alive at the end of the follow-up, Number of patients with hemoptysis and endobronchial malignancies who are still alive after 3,5 months after the endoscopic intervention, 3,5 months|Clinical and endoscopic factors (composite measure) associated to bleeding cessation after the intervention, Clinical and endoscopic factors (composite measure) associated to bleeding cessation after the intervention (i.e. age, gender, ethnicity, smoking history, cancer type and stage, ECOG performance Status, concomitant heart, lung, kidney and liver disease, antiplatelet/anticoagulant therapy, creatinine and hemoglobin level and platelet count, PT and PTT values; endoscopic location of malignancy (i.e. lobe and side), endoscopic growth pattern of malignancy (i.e. exophytic, submucosal/peribronchial growth), current/former chemotherapy and radiation therapy on the chest, time from malignancy diagnosis to hemoptysis onset, time from hemoptysis onset to endoscopic treatment, necessity of blood transfusion)., 48 hours
Hemoptysis is a challenging symptom which may be frequently related to endobronchial malignancies. Patients with central neoplasms and hemoptysis show a lower median survival than patients with no bleeding and endobronchial neoplasms and/or patients with hemoptysis and peripheral malignant lesions.

Hemoptysis control without recurrence at 48 hours after bronchoscopic interventions may improve survival in patients with mild bleeding and endobronchial malignancies.

Argon Plasma Coagulation is considered one of the most effective techniques for endobronchial management of hemoptysis in this subset of patients. Nevertheless, few data are available in literature on its efficacy and safety, and the main predictors of success are still unclear.

In this prospective, observational study, investigators aim to evaluate the efficacy (i.e. immediate bleeding cessation without recurrence during the following 48 hours) of endoscopic Argon Plasma Coagulation in patients with hemoptysis caused by endobronchial neoplasms.

Investigators will also evaluate the safety of the procedure, the main variables associated to a successful intervention, the presence of hemoptysis relapses and patients overall survival to 3,5 months after the bronchoscopic intervention.