Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Study for Staging of Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
This prospective pilot study will enroll 30 patients with cT2/T3-N0-M0 urothelial carcinoma of the bladder for whom radical cystectomy with pelvic lymph node dissection is planned. This pilot study is designed to provide preliminary information on the accuracy of \[18F\] Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography MRI (FDG-PET-MRI) in the staging of muscle-invasive bladder cancer.
Bladder Cancer
PROCEDURE: FDG PET/MR
Sensitivity and specificity of the FDG-PET-MRI for staging of muscle-invasive bladder cancer, The sensitivity and specificity of the FDG-PET-MRI for staging of muscle-invasive bladder will be evaluated by using the pathology from the radical cystectomy and lymph node dissection specimen or biopsy as the reference standard. The sensitivity and specificity of FDG-PET-MRI will be compared to conventional CT performed in all patients in this pilot study and FDG-PET-CT., 3 years
Association of FDG-PET-MRI with RFS, DSS and OS in patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer, A positive FDG-PET-MRI or routine contrast enhanced abdominal/pelvic MDCT will be defined as evidence of metastatic disease as follows: 1) regionally, in the pelvic lymph nodes; or 2) distantly, to bone, lung, viscera or lymph nodes outside of the pelvis. OS will be defined as the time from the PET-MRI to the date of death from any cause. DSS will be defined from the date of PET-MRI to the date of death from disease. RFS will be defined as the time from the date of PET-MRI to recurrence or death from disease., 3 years
This prospective pilot study will enroll 30 patients with cT2/T3-N0-M0 urothelial carcinoma of the bladder for whom radical cystectomy with pelvic lymph node dissection is planned. This pilot study is designed to provide preliminary information on the accuracy of \[18F\] Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography MRI (FDG-PET-MRI) in the staging of muscle-invasive bladder cancer. All patients will undergo baseline FDG-PET-MRI and routine (standard of care) contrast enhanced abdominal/pelvic multi-detector computed tomography (MDCT). The imaging results will ultimately be compared to final pathology as the gold standard. If the accuracy of FDG-PET-MRI is improved as compared to standard MDCT, the investigators plan to conduct a larger follow-up study to confirm the results of this pilot study. In addition, this pilot study will set the stage for the evaluation of novel PET tracers in the imaging of bladder cancer.