Paclitaxel and BKM120 Before Surgery in Treating Patients With Stage II or III Estrogen Receptor-Positive and HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effects of paclitaxel combined with phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor BKM120 in patients with stage II or III breast cancer that is described as estrogen receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-negative and endocrine therapy resistant. Drugs such as paclitaxel stop the growth of tumors by blocking cancer cell division. PI3K inhibitor BKM120 inhibits some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and may improve the response of endocrine resistant tumors to treatment. Giving paclitaxel and PI3K inhibitor BKM120 before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: BKM120
Pathologic complete response rate in patients with endocrine therapy resistant tumors following neoadjuvant paclitaxel in combination with BKM120, Proportion of patients with no histologic evidence of invasive tumor cells in the surgical breast specimen and axillary or lymph nodes. A 90% confidence interval for the pCR rate will be constructed using the Duffy-Santner approach., After 2-12 weeks on neoadjuvant endocrine therapy
Proportion of patients who developed severe (grade 3+) toxicity related to neoadjuvant treatment, Assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI)-CTCAE version 4.0., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Clinical response rate in patients with endocrine therapy resistant tumors following neoadjuvant paclitaxel in combination with BKM120, Proportion of eligible patients whose disease burden meets the WHO criteria for complete or partial response before surgery. A 95% binomial confidence interval for the clinical response rate will be constructed., Up to 12 weeks
This phase II trial studies the effects of paclitaxel combined with phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor BKM120 in patients with stage II or III breast cancer that is described as estrogen receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)-negative and endocrine therapy resistant. Drugs such as paclitaxel stop the growth of tumors by blocking cancer cell division. PI3K inhibitor BKM120 inhibits some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and may improve the response of endocrine resistant tumors to treatment. Giving paclitaxel and PI3K inhibitor BKM120 before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.