A Phase 1 Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacokinetics of MEDI0639 in Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a first-time-in-human, Phase 1, multicenter, open-label, single-arm, dose-escalation (3+3) study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, antitumor activity, PK and immunogenicity of MEDI0639.
Solid Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: MEDI0639
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of MEDI0639, The MTD evaluation was based on the dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluable population. DLT is defined as any Grade 3 or higher treatment-related toxicity that occurred during the DLT evaluation period (defined as the time from the first dose of MEDI0639 to 21 days after the first dose), except for National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Grade 3 hypertension that could be controlled within 96 hours; Grade 3 symptomatic hypertension of greater than (\>) 180 millimetre of mercury (mm Hg) systolic or \>120 mm Hg diastolic or asymptomatic hypertension of \>200 mm Hg systolic or \>120 mm Hg diastolic was considered a DLT., From the first dose of MEDI0639 to 21 days after the first dose|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) is any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. Treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) were events present at baseline that worsened in intensity after administration of study drug or events absent at baseline that emerged after administration of study drug, for the period extending to 90 days after the last dose of study drug. The AEs were summarized using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) version 18.1., From the first dose of MEDI0639 until 90 days after the last dose of MEDI0639. Maximum time frame across participants was 11 months.|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs), A serious AE (SAE) is any AE that results in death (refers to an event, which risk of death at the time of the event; it does not refer to an event that may have led to death), is immediately life threatening, require (or prolong) inpatient hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly or birth defect, or is an important medical event that may jeopardize the participant or may require medical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed above. Treatment-emergent SAEs defined as SAEs present at baseline that worsened in intensity after administration of study drug or SAEs absent at baseline that emerged after administration of study drug. The SAEs were summarized using MedDRA version 18.1., From the first dose of MEDI0639 until the end of participation in the study. Maximum time frame across participants was 4 years.|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Related to Laboratory Parameters, Laboratory evaluations of blood and urine samples were performed, including hematology (white blood cell \[WBC\] count with differential, red blood cell \[RBC\] count, hematocrit, hemoglobin, platelet count, mean corpuscular volume \[MCV\], and mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration \[MCHC\]); serum chemistry (calcium, chloride, magnesium, potassium, sodium, bicarbonate, aspartate transaminase \[AST\], alanine transaminase \[ALT\], alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin, liver function test, gamma glutamyl transferase \[GGT\], lactate dehydrogenase, uric acid, creatinine, blood urea nitrogen \[BUN\], glucose, albumin, total protein, triglycerides, cholesterol, and troponin); and routine urinalysis. The TEAEs related to laboratory evaluations in participants were reported., From the first dose of MEDI0639 until 90 days after last dose of MEDI0639. Maximum time frame across participants was 11 months.|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Related to Vital Signs and Physical Examination, Vital signs (temperature, blood pressure, pulse rate, and respiratory rate) were performed at baseline and throughout the study. The TEAEs related to vital signs in participants were reported., From the first dose of MEDI0639 until 90 days after last dose of MEDI0639. Maximum time frame across participants was 11 months.|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Related to Electrocardiogram (ECG) Evaluations, ECG parameters included QT interval and corrected QT (QTc) interval. Electrocardiogram (ECG) parameters were assessed at baseline as well as throughout the study. All 12-lead ECGs performed during the study were obtained in triplicate. The TEAEs related to ECG evaluations in participants were reported., From the first dose of MEDI0639 until 90 days after last dose of MEDI0639. Maximum time frame across participants was 11 months.|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Related to Echocardiogram Evaluations, Echocardiogram parameters included left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) and pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP). The TEAEs related to echocardiogram evaluations in participants were reported., From the first dose of MEDI0639 until 90 days after last dose of MEDI0639. Maximum time frame across participants was 11 months.
Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to Infinity (AUCinf) After Cycle 1 Treatment Administration of MEDI0639, The pharmacokinetics (PK) parameter was estimated using the noncompartmental analysis methods, based on the individual serum concentration-time data. The concentration-time curve is the result of blood sampling at specified time points and its measured concentration of MEDI0639., Days 1 (prior to start of infusion and 30 mins, 2, and 6 hours post end of infusion), 2, 5 , 8, and 15 of Cycle 1|Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) After Cycle 1 Treatment Administration of MEDI0639, The pharmacokinetics (PK) parameter was estimated using the noncompartmental analysis methods, based on the individual serum concentration-time data. The concentration-time curve is the result of blood sampling at specified time points and its measured concentration of MEDI0639., Days 1 (prior to start of infusion and 30 mins, 2, and 6 hours post end of infusion), 2, 5 , 8, and 15 of Cycle 1|Clearance (CL) After Cycle 1 Treatment Administration of MEDI0639, The pharmacokinetics (PK) parameter was estimated using the noncompartmental analysis methods, based on the individual serum concentration-time data. The concentration-time curve is the result of blood sampling at specified time points and its measured concentration of MEDI0639. Clearance was estimated as dose divided by the area under serum concentration-time curve from time zero to infinity., Days 1 (prior to start of infusion and 30 mins, 2, and 6 hours post end of infusion), 2, 5 , 8, and 15 of Cycle 1|Half-life (t1/2) After Cycle 1 Treatment Administration of MEDI0639, The pharmacokinetics (PK) parameter was estimated using the noncompartmental analysis methods, based on the individual serum concentration-time data. The concentration-time curve is the result of blood sampling at specified time points and its measured concentration of MEDI0639., Days 1 (prior to start of infusion and 30 mins, 2, and 6 hours post end of infusion), 2, 5 , 8, and 15 of Cycle 1|Number of Participants Positive With Antidrug Antibodies (ADA) for MEDI0639, Blood samples were measured for the presence of ADA for MEDI0639 using a validated bridging immunoassay. Only the number of participants positive for anti-MEDI-575 antibodies at any visit were presented., On Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, and every other cycle thereafter, end of treatment, 30 days, and 3 and 6 months after the last dose of MEDI0639. Maximum time frame across participants was 14 months.|Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response, Percentage (%) of participants who were responders with BOR documented as confirmed CR, PR, stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD) and non-evaluable (NE). CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. PR: At least a 30 % decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., From study entry through the end of the study. Maximum time frame across participants was 4 years.|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Objective response rate (ORR) defined as the percentage of participants with a BOR of confirmed CR or confirmed PR., From study entry through the end of the study. Maximum time frame across participants was 4 years.|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control, Disease control rate (DCR) defined as the percentage of participants with a BOR of confirmed CR, confirmed PR or SD., From study entry through the end of the study. Maximum time frame across participants was 4 years.|Time to Response, Time to response (TTR) defined as the time from the first dose of MEDI0639 until the first documentation of a subsequently confirmed objective response. Only participants who have achieved objective response (confirmed CR or confirmed PR) was evaluated for TTR. TTR (months) = (Date of first disease response - Date of the first dose of MEDI0639 + 1) / (365.25/12)., From study entry through the end of the study. Maximum time frame across participants was 4 years.|Duration of Response (DR), DR defined as time from start of first documented objective response \[confirmed Complete Response (CR) or confirmed Partial Response (PR)\] to first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. DR calculated as (months) = (Date of PD/death or censoring - Date of first disease response + 1)/ (365.25/12)., From study entry through the end of the study. Maximum time frame across participants was 4 years.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the first dose of MEDI0639 until the first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS (months) = (Date of PD/death or censoring - Date of the first dose of MEDI0639 + 1) / (365.25/12)., From study entry through the end of the study. Maximum time frame across participants was 4 years.|Overall Survival, Overall survival defined as the time from the first dose of MEDI0639 until death due to any cause. OS (months) = (Date of death or censoring - Date of the first dose of MEDI0639 + 1) / (365.25/12)., From study entry through the end of the study. Maximum time frame across participants was 4 years.
This is a first-time-in-human, Phase 1, multicenter, open-label, single-arm, dose-escalation (3+3) study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, antitumor activity, PK, and immunogenicity of MEDI0639 in adult subjects with advanced solid tumors refractory to standard therapy or for which no standard therapy exist. Up to 63 subjects will be enrolled at approximately 3 to 5 study centers in North America.