Molecular Imaging of Primary Amyloid Cardiomyopathy
Cardiac amyloidosis is a major cause of early treatment-related death and poor overall survival in individuals with systemic light chain amyloidosis. This project will develop a novel approach to visualize cardiac amyloid deposits using advanced imaging methods. The long-term goal of this work is to identify the mechanisms of cardiac dysfunction, in order to guide the development of novel life-saving treatments.
Amyloidosis, Primary|Cardiomyopathy
RADIATION: F-18 florbetapir/C-11 acetate PET|DEVICE: MRI|RADIATION: N-13 ammonia PET
Change in F-18 florbetapir myocardial retention index from baseline to 6 months and 12 months, quantitative measure of F-18 florbetapir uptake by the heart muscle, Baseline, 6 and 12 months|Change in Serum oxidative stress markers from baseline to 6 months and 12 months, serum F-2 isoprostane and peroxynitrite levels, Baseline, 6 and 12 months|Change in Myocardial oxidative metabolism markers from baseline to 6 months, K mono and coronary flow reserve obtained by C-11 acetate PET/CT at rest and stress, Baseline and 6 months|Change in Magnetic resonance imaging markers from baseline to 6 months and 12 months, Extracellular volume index, T-1 mapping, late gadolinium enhancement, global strain, left ventricular mass, Baseline, 6 and 12 months
Change in Myocardial energy efficiency from baseline to 6 months, Myocardial energy efficiency, Kmono reserve, will be determined by C-11 acetate PET, Baseline and 6 months|Light Chain Toxicity, Study subject urine light chain's will be extracted and infused into zebrafish and isolated cardiomyocytes to study light chain toxicity, Baseline|Understand the role of gut microbiota and heavy metals in the pathogenesis of AL Amyloidosis, This will be tested using machine learning methods with 16S rRNA sequencing of salivary and stool samples in a 40-patient cohort with AL-amyloidosis compared to healthy controls from the NIH funded human microbiome project (HMP).This will also be used to test if the gut microbiome affects amyloid formation using a transgenic mouse model of AL amyloidosis that expresses the human LC in the gut and develops amyloid in the stomach., Baseline
Primary light chain amyloidosis (AL) is the most common systemic amyloidosis, resulting from a plasma cell dyscrasia, a hematological malignancy. It causes a restrictive cardiomyopathy (AL-CMP) in over 70% of individuals. AL-CMP is as lethal as stage 4 lung cancer and more lethal than any other form of restrictive heart disease; if untreated, the mortality rate is 50% within 18 months. Moreover, myocardial dysfunction, the hallmark of AL-CMP, significantly increases early treatment related mortality, predominantly cardiovascular death, and is a powerful predictor of poor long-term survival. Two potentially treatable mechanisms underlie myocardial dysfunction-mechanical effects of amyloid and toxic effects from circulating light chain/ amyloid interactions-and predispose to heart failure, arrhythmias, and sudden death in individuals with AL-CMP. Until now, efforts to determine the mechanisms of AL-CMP have been hampered by a lack of animal models and the limitations of noninvasive techniques to directly image myocardial amyloid. A recent breakthrough, 18F-florbetapir PET/CT, has provided for the first time specific and quantitative imaging of myocardial amyloid including toxic amyloid protofibrils. Furthermore, we propose to investigate three pre-clinically proven pathways of light chain toxicity in humans-myocardial oxidative metabolism, oxidative stress, and coronary microvascular function. Our central hypotheses are that myocardial 18F-florbetapir retention is a biomarker for aggressiveness of AL-CMP and that effective chemotherapy will, by reducing circulating light chains, decrease aggressiveness of AL-CMP and improve oxidative stress, myocardial oxidative metabolism, microvascular function and contractile function, prior to an improvement in myocardial amyloid content. In Aim 1, we will quantify myocardial 18F-florbetapir retention as a marker of aggressive myocardial disease in individuals with AL-CMP and active plasma cell dyscrasia compared to control individuals with AL-CMP and long-term hematological remission. In Aim 2, we propose, using advanced imaging, to assess the effects of light chain reduction due to chemotherapy on myocardial structure, function, and metabolism and define the time course of these changes. Serial ECV and strain imaging by CMR, serum F2-isoprostanes and peroxynitrite levels, myocardial oxidative metabolism (Kmono) and coronary flow reserve by 11C-acetate PET, and 18F-florbetapir imaging will not only intricately characterize the myocardial substrate in AL-CMP, but also identify changes in response to therapy. The proposed studies offer the potential to transform our current understanding of AL-CMP as a restrictive heart disease caused by passive amyloid-related architectural damage to that of a more complex disorder resulting from both passive and aggressive factors. The results of these studies may form the foundation for drug discovery programs to prevent and cure AL-CMP.

Interactions of environmental factors, immunity, and host-related factors likely trigger AL-amyloidosis, but have not yet been explored. Changes in metal ions and gut microbiota may be causal, representing the integrated effects of all these factors, or may be the downstream effect of systemic amyloid deposition in the organ systems. A plethora of recent literature strongly support the role of microbiota in the pathogenesis of several diseases, suggesting that gut microbiota changes with age, influences heart failure (HF) outcomes, and plays a role in the formation of β-amyloid deposits in Alzheimer's disease. Importantly, alterations in lifestyle, diet, prebiotics, probiotics, or phenols and gut microbiota may represent therapeutic and preventative strategies in amyloid disease, but it has not been explored in AL-amyloidosis. We propose to study the role of salivary and gut microbiome in AL amyloidosis.