AMD3100 Plus Pembrolizumab in Immune Checkpoint Blockade Refractory Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This research is studying the safety and effectiveness of AMD3100 and pembrolizumab in participants with metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: AMD3100|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Number of Participants That Experience a Dose Limiting Toxicity, A safety run in will be conducted with AMD3100 administered weekly or every three weeks, both in combination with pembrolizumab administered every three weeks. The number of participants that experience dose limiting toxicities will be reported for each arm., From the start of treatment up to 24 months, or until disease progression or intolerable toxicity, whichever occurs first|Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). A participant is considered to have achieved a response if the achieve either of the following:

* Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm
* Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, From the start of treatment up to 24 months, or until disease progression or intolerable toxicity, whichever occurs first
Progression Free Survival, The duration of time from randomization until disease progression or death. Disease progression is assessed using RECIST criteria.

Confirmed Progressive Disease(CPD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression). Disease progression must be confirmed on a subsequent scan., From the time of randomization until disease progression or death, up to approximately 5 years|Overall Survival, The median duration of time from the time of randomization until death., From the time of randomization until death, up to approximately 5 years|The Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Serious Adverse Events, Adverse events are assessed using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. A treatment-related adverse event is an adverse event deemed to be possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment by the investigator., From the start of treatment until 30 days after the end of treatment, up to 25 months|Duration of Response, Duration of response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, or death due to any cause. Participants without events reported are censored at the last disease evaluation)., From the time of first response until disease progression, up to 24 months
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug combination works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

Because AMD3100 and Pembrolizumab have not been administered together to individuals before, there will be a Run-In phase prior to the beginning of Phase II. This Run-In Phase is designed to identify what dosing schedule is best for participants on this study. Participants will be participating in the Run-In Phase.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved Pembrolizumab as a treatment option for this disease.

The FDA has not approved AMD3100 as a treatment option for this disease, however it has approved the drug for use in individuals who have recently had bone marrow transplants.

Pembrolizumab is thought to block a receptor called PD-1. This receptor usually acts as a "brake" to prevent the body's immune system from attacking cancer cells. The antibody "removes the brake" to allow parts of the body's immune system (usually T cells) to attack the tumor

AMD3100 is a drug that inhibits CXCR4, which is a biological mechanism called a chemokine. CXCR4 is over-expressed in cancer cells and promotes cancer cell growth, spread, and survival and controls immune cell trafficking. Researchers believe that inhibiting CXCR4 expels the immune-suppressive cells out of the tumor and attract the cancer-killing immune cells into the tumor environment so that the body's immune system may be able to better attack the cancer cells.

In this research study, the investigators are assessing the safety and effectiveness of AMD3100 and pembrolizumab in participants with aggressive head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.