Immunization With the MAGE-3.A1 Peptide Mixed With the Adjuvant CpG 7909 in Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
The purposes of this study are to determine whether immunization with the MAGE-3.A1 peptide mixed with CpG 7909 results in a detectable immune response; to determine the safety of this vaccine and to document the tumor response to the vaccine.
Malignant Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: MAGE-3.A1 peptide and CpG 7909
Number of Patients With a Detectable Cytolytic T Lymphocyte (CTL) Response Following Immunization With the MAGE-3.A1 Peptide Mixed With CpG 7909., Blood samples were collected prior to treatment and in weeks 3, 7, and 13. Specific CTL responses directed against the MAGE-3.A1 antigen were to be assessed by using restimulation in vitro, followed by staining with the A1/MAGE-3 tetramer and cloning of the tetramer-positive lymphocytes (MLPC/tetramer/cloning assay)., Up to 12 weeks
To Determine the Safety of the Treatment by Measuring the Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT), All adverse events were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Scale, version 3.0.

DLT was defined as:

* Any Grade 3 hematological or non-hematological toxicity other than skin or flu-like symptoms.
* Any Grade 4 toxicity. To be dose-limiting, an adverse event must be definitely, probably, or possibly related to the administration of MAGE-3.A1 peptide mixed with CpG 7909., up to 12 weeks|To Determine the Clinical Effectiveness of the Treatment by Measuring Tumor Response in Patients With Measurable Disease., Computed tomography (CT) scans were performed at screening, and at week 13. Response was assessed using RECIST version 1.0 (Therasse et al, J Natl Cancer Inst 2000; 92:205-16). Per RECIST, target lesions are categorized as follows: complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions (no evaluable disease); partial response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; progressive disease (PD): ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; stable disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria., up to 12 weeks
Patients will be vaccinated every two weeks on six occasions. On each vaccination day, the MAGE-3.A1 peptide (300 µg) mixed with CpG 7909 (5 mg) will be administered twice intradermally (10% of the dose each) and twice subcutaneously (40% of the dose each) in the arms and thighs.

Tumor staging will be performed before inclusion and at week 13. PBL collections will be performed before starting the treatment, and at weeks 3, 7 and 13. They will provide the T lymphocytes for the immunological analysis.

Additional cycles of immunization will be proposed to patients without tumor progression requiring another treatment. A second cycle of 3 injections at 6-week intervals will be started at week 17 with the same vaccine, followed by a third cycle of 12 injections at 3-month intervals starting at month 11. At any time, progression of the disease necessitating any treatment not allowed during the study, will result in study withdrawal.