Fosaprepitant Dimeglumine, Palonosetron Hydrochloride, and Dexamethasone in Preventing Nausea and Vomiting Caused by Cisplatin in Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Head and Neck Cancer Undergoing Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy
RATIONALE: Fosaprepitant dimeglumine, palonosetron hydrochloride, and dexamethasone may help lessen or prevent nausea and vomiting caused by cisplatin in patients with head and neck cancer undergoing chemotherapy and radiation therapy.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well fosaprepitant dimeglumine together with palonosetron hydrochloride and dexamethasone works in preventing nausea and vomiting caused by cisplatin in patients with stage III or stage IV head and neck cancer undergoing chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
Nausea and Vomiting|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx
DRUG: fosaprepitant dimeglumine|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: palonosetron hydrochloride|DRUG: dexamethasone|OTHER: Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire|BEHAVIORAL: Emesis Diary|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Proportion of Patients With a Complete Response to the Anti-emetic Medication Regimen, Complete response is defined as no emesis or rescue nausea medications needed in the first 120 hours following cisplatin infusion., 120 hours following cisplatin infusion
Rate of Complete Response to Anti-emetic Therapy in the Delayed Setting (25-120 Hours After Cisplatin Infusion), 25-120 hours following cisplatin infusion|Control of Nausea for 120 Hours Following Each Cisplatin Infusion for Multiple Cycles of Therapy as Measured by the Visual Analog Scale, The visual analog scale ranges from 0-100. 0 is labeled as "no nausea" and 100 is labeled as "nausea as bad as it could be" A score of \< 25 is considered to indicate no significant nausea. All patients discontinued trial after only one cisplatin infusion., 120 hours following cisplatin infusion|Impact of Cisplatin-induced Nausea and Vomiting on Daily Life During the 5 Day Period Following Cisplatin Infusion for Multiple Cycles as Measured by the Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire, FLIE is a patient-completed quality of life assessment modified from the original Functional Living Index - Cancer questionnaire. FLIE contains two domains: nausea and vomiting with nine items in each domain. The first item asks the patient to rate how much nausea (or vomiting) has occurred over a 5 day period. The remaining eight items ask patients to rate the impact of nausea (or vomiting) on various aspects of a patient's life (for example, ability to enjoy meals/liquids). Each item is answered using a 7 point visual analog scale with 7 being "none /not at all" and 1 being "a great deal". The two domains are summed for a total score with a possible range of 18-126. Higher scores indicate a more favorable quality of life. A total score of \>108 defines those patients who had a minimal impact of CINV on quality of life. All particpants discontinued the trial after one cycle of cisplatin., 5 days following cisplatin infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete response rate of anti-emetic therapy based on a single dose of intravenous fosaprepitant with multiple cycles of high dose cisplatin (complete response is defined as no emesis or rescue nausea medications needed in the 120 hours following cisplatin infusion).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete response rate of anti-emetic therapy based on a single dose of intravenous fosaprepitant with multiple cycles of high dose cisplatin in the delayed period (25-120 hours following cisplatin infusion).

II. To determine efficacy of anti-emetic therapy based on a single-dose of intravenous fosaprepitant to achieve adequate control of nausea following multiple cycles of high-dose cisplatin as defined by a score on the visual analog scale of \< 25mm in the 120 hours following cisplatin infusion.

III. To determine the functional impact of cisplatin induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) on daily life as measured by the Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) Questionnaire total score.

OUTLINE: Patients receive cisplatin IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses. Patients also undergo 3-D conformal radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for up to 7 weeks.

Patients receive fosaprepitant dimeglumine IV, palonosetron hydrochloride IV, and dexamethasone IV on day 1 (prior to cisplatin infusion). Patients then receive oral dexamethasone on days 2-4. Patients with no emesis or requirement for rescue anti-emetics in the first 120 hours after cisplatin infusion continue to receive the anti-emetic regimen as above with the second and third courses of cisplatin.

Patients complete an emesis diary (that includes a nausea visual analog scale) daily for 5 days after each cisplatin infusion. Patients also complete a Functional Living Index-Emesis Questionnaire on day 8 of each course of chemotherapy.