Percutaneous Bilateral Versus Unilateral Metal Stent for Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is the most common biliary malignancy and the second most common hepatic malignancy after hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A majority of the CCA (50-70%) was presented in the area of the biliary duct bifurcation. Recent retrospective study included heterogeneous group of malignant diseases demonstrate that draining more than 50% of was associated with a longer median survival.

However, in recent European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) biliary stenting clinical guideline and Asia-Pacific consensus recommendations for endoscopic and interventional management of hilar cholangiocarcinoma (HCCA), whether we should deployment bilateral or unilateral metal stent for patients with HCCA was not clearly recommended due to the absence of randomized controlled trials.
Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: bilateral metal stent insertion|PROCEDURE: unilateral metal stent insertion
Failure to control jaundice or failure to prevent stent occlusion or re-jaundice within three month after stent implantation, From stent insertion to three months
Median survival, up to 1 year
Stent patency, Stent patency is a secondary endpoint of this study. Cumulative stent patency rate is compared between the two groups., up to 1year|Early major complications, Early major complications is a secondary endpoint of this study.Early major complications rate is compared between the two groups, 30 days within treatment|30-day mortality, 30-day mortality is a secondary endpoint of this study. 30-day mortality rate is compared between the two groups., 30 days within treatment
Patients with advanced hilar obstruction (Bismuth III and IV), PTBS had a higher success rate of cholestasis palliation and a low rate of post cholangitis when compared with endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography(ERCP). The advantage of percutaneous approach is the precise lobar selection for drainage and this approach should yield a lower rate of cholangitis.

Guideline recommendation European Society of Gastrointestinal Endoscopy (ESGE) biliary stenting clinical guideline and Asia-Pacific consensus recommendations the goal of palliative stenting of HCCA is drainage of adequate liver volume (50% or more), irrespective of unilateral, bilateral, or multi-segmental stenting was based on heterogeneous group of malignancy by ERCP in retrospective study.There are no randomized clinical trials compared with these two internal biliary drainage methods in HCCA using metal stent.

The aim of the present study was to compare the effect and safety of bilateral versus unilateral stenting in patients with HCCA.