Autologous Testicular Tissue Transplantation
Freezing testicular tissue of prepubertal boys is a method for preserving spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) in case of imminent gonadotoxic treatment during childhood. In case of total azoospermia in adulthood and presence of a childwish, the investigators intend to perform the first in men autologous testicular tissue transplantation to restore fertility.
Cancer|Sickle Cell Thalassemia|Hematologic Diseases
PROCEDURE: Autologous testicular tissue transplantation of prepubertal frozen testicular tissue
Restoration of spermatogenesis and fertility by performing an autologous testicular tissue transplantation. Primary endpoint is the presence of spermatozoa in the graft., Freezing testicular tissue of prepubertal boys is a method for preserving spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs).

If the patient has a childwish at adult age and in case no spermatozoa are found in the ejaculate, the investigators will perform autologous testicular tissue transplantation with the primary objective being to restore spermatogenesis and fertility.

Grafting will be performed intra-testicular and intrascrotal for each patient. Grafts will be removed 12 months after grafting.

Primary endpoint is the presence of spermatozoa in the grafted tissue. In the IVF laboratory mechanical mincing and enzymatic digestion will be performed on the tissue to find spermatozoa. If spermatozoa are present concentration and motility will be available., Graft-removal of intratesticular and intrascrotal grafts is planned 12 months after grafting.
Histological study to define the optimal transplantation site, The presence of sperm-generating stem cells, as well as their possible maturation to sperm cells will be evaluated through available and validated microscopic staining techniques applied to the testicular tissue. The maturity of other, non-sperm-generating testicular cells (Sertoli cells and Leydig cells) will also be evaluated. The results from tissue fragments transplanted to the testicle will be compared to the results from the tissue fragments transplanted to the scrotum. During the removal procedure of the transplanted fragments, a control biopsy (TESE) will be performed on the contra-lateral testicle (the one on which no transplantation was performed)., Graft-removal of intratesticular grafts and intrascrotal grafts are planned 12 months after initial grafting. Histological study will be performed 12 months after initial grafting|Imaging study, The investigators will study the possibility of analyzing the growth of the transplanted fragments and the development of sperm cell production in these fragments by using ultrasound and Doppler techniques in a non-invasive way. Ultrasound will be performed 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after grafting. These findings will be compared to the findings of the semen and blood analysis and the clinical examination., Each patient in the study will be followed-up after screening during a period of 12 months post-grafting on 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after initial grafting.|Endocrinological (hormonal) study, The investigators plan a follow-up of the functionality of the transplanted tissue by performing blood analyses with LH (IU/L), FSH (IU/L), testosterone (ng/L), Inhibine B (ng/L) and Insulin-like factor 3 (INSL3, ng/ml).

Blood analyses will be repeated 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after the transplantation procedure., Each patient in the study will be followed-up after screening during a period of 12 months post-grafting on 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after initial grafting.|Biomarker Study, As an exploratory part of this study, the investigators will study the possibility to predict the presence of testicular spermatogenesis in a non-invasive way (by semen and/or urine samples). If different biomarkers could be identified specificaly for the different stages of spermatogenesis, the development of the transplanted biopsies could be monitored this way. For this study, a urine and semen sample will be needed 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after the transplantation procedure., Each patient in the study will be followed-up after screening during a period of 12 months post-grafting on 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after initial grafting.|Complications, Each patient in the study will be followed-up during a period of 15 months after initial grafting or 3 months after graft-removal to report any complication(s) of the procedures., Each patient in the study will be follow-up after screening during a period of 15 months post-grafting.
Freezing testicular tissue of prepubertal boys is a method for preserving spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs). In 2002, the University hospital in Brussels (UZB) was the first hospital worldwide to offer testicular tissue cryobanking for fertility preservation in boys and ado-lescents. Since then, several other centers in Europe and USA have implemented similar fertility preservation programs. However, up till now, autologous transplantations of cryopreserved testicular tissue have not been performed yet.

As soon as a patient returns to the Centre for Reproductive Medicine at UZB with the request to transplant the preserved testicular tissue, the investigators will first analyse semen and blood. If spermatozoa are found in their semen, men can immediately enroll in standard care for natural conception, intra-uterine insemination (IUI), in-vitro fertilization (IVF) or intra-cytoplasmic injection (ICSI). However, in case no spermatozoa are found in the ejaculate the investigators intend to propose and eventually perform autologous testicular tissue transplantation with the primary objective being to restore spermatogenesis and fertility.