Exploration of Risk Factors for Postoperative Cerebral Infarction in Lung Cancer Patients: a Retrospective Single-centre Study
Lung cancer remains the world's leading cancer in terms of morbidity and mortality, with more than 20 million new cases and 9.7 million deaths annually. Despite improvements in surgical techniques and medical care, the number of elderly people undergoing surgery is gradually increasing, so there are an increasing number of complications following lung resection. Postoperative cerebral infarction is a relatively rare but devastating complication that places a heavy burden on patients and families. The incidence of postoperative cerebral infarction in patients after thoracic surgery has been reported to be 0.6-1.1%. There is a risk of postoperative cerebral infarction after lung cancer surgery, and the results of a few studies have shown that postoperative cerebral infarction is related to old age, male, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and lobectomy factors, but the pathogenesis of the occurrence of cerebral infarction has not been clearly proved for the time being, and so these risk factors cannot be taken as the direct cause of cerebral infarction. Therefore, we need to further explore the factors leading to cerebral infarction after lung cancer surgery. If we can further prove that some of the risk factors are related to the causes of cerebral infarction after lung cancer surgery, we can make corresponding strategies in the perioperative period to improve the safety of surgery and reduce the incidence of cerebral infarction in the postoperative period.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell|Postoperative Cerebral Infarction
OTHER: non-intervention
Analysing independent risk factors for cerebral infarction after pneumonectomy, Clinical trial data were entered into Excel for recording information and subsequently converted to SPSS for statistical analysis. Descriptive statistics of the named data were expressed as absolute numbers and percentages according to each patient.

Clinical characteristics of patients who developed cerebral infarction after surgery were retrospectively compared with those of patients who underwent pneumonectomy without cerebral infarction. Continuous data were expressed as median and interquartile range, and categorical data were expressed as frequencies and percentages. Independent risk factors for developing cerebral infarction after pneumonectomy were analysed using univariate and multivariate logistic regression., 5min
Lung cancer remains the world's leading cancer in terms of morbidity and mortality, with more than 20 million new cases and 9.7 million deaths annually. Despite improvements in surgical techniques and medical care, the number of elderly people undergoing surgery is gradually increasing, so there are an increasing number of complications following lung resection. Postoperative cerebral infarction is a relatively rare but devastating complication that places a heavy burden on patients and families. The incidence of postoperative cerebral infarction in patients after thoracic surgery has been reported to be 0.6-1.1%. There is a risk of postoperative cerebral infarction after lung cancer surgery, and the results of a few studies have shown that postoperative cerebral infarction is related to old age, male, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and lobectomy factors, but the pathogenesis of the occurrence of cerebral infarction has not been clearly proved for the time being, and so these risk factors cannot be taken as the direct cause of cerebral infarction. Therefore, we need to further explore the factors leading to cerebral infarction after lung cancer surgery. If we can further prove that some of the risk factors are related to the causes of cerebral infarction after lung cancer surgery, we can make corresponding strategies in the perioperative period to improve the safety of surgery and reduce the incidence of cerebral infarction in the postoperative period.