Pembrolizumab Plus CRT Followed by Surgery in Upper ESCC
Through a prospective, single-center, single-arm, phase Ib/II study, we aim to explore the safety and feasibility of a new treatment mode for upper esophageal cancer, which is that pembrolizumab combined with chemoradiotherapy as neoadjuvant therapy and then followed by radical surgery.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Major pathologic response, Viable tumor comprised ≤ 10% of resected tumor specimens, 4 months
R0 resection rate, R0 resection rate, At time of surgery|Larynx preservation rate, Larynx preservation rate, At time of surgery|Disease-free survival (DFS), DFS is defined as the time interval between the date of enrollment and the date of the first documented evidence of relapse after radical resection at any site or death related to cancer (including toxicity), whichever occurred first., 24 months|Local-regional recurrence free survival (LRRFS), LRRFS is defined as the time interval between the date of enrollment and the date of the first documented evidence of local-regional relapse after radical resection at primary site or death related to cancer (including toxicity), whichever occurred first., 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Time from the enrollment to death of any cause, 24 months
Treatment includes induction treatment, sequential treatment and maintenance treatment.

1. Preoperative neoadjuvant therapy 1) Induction therapy (2 cycles): Immunotherapy+Chemotherapy Pembrolizumab 200mg, IV, D1, q3w, Albumin paclitaxel, 125mg/m2, IV, D1/D8, q3w; Cisplatin, 70mg/m2 in total, IV, given in three times, q3w. 2) Sequential treatment: Immunotherapy+Chemoradiotherapy Pembrolizumab 200mg, IV, D1, q3w, 2 cycles; Albumin paclitaxel, 100mg, IV, D1, QW, 4 cycles; Cisplatin, 20mg/m2, IV, D1, QW, 4 cycles. Radiotherapy: PTV: 44gy/2gy/22fx, 5 days a week, 5 weeks in total.
2. Surgery 4-8 weeks after the end of the neoadjuvant therapy, the operation can be performed only when the indexes of leukocyte, platelet, liver and kidney function of the patient are normal. The operation aims to achieve R0 resection with laryngeal preservation.
3. Postoperative adjuvant treatment Patients who did not reach pCR after operation were given pembrolizumab 200mg, IV, D1, q3w 4-6 weeks after operation until 1 year, disease progression or intolerable toxicity.
4. Follow-up period Patients will be continuously monitored during the study. The enrolled subjects will be closely followed up for 2 years.