Randomized Trial of PSMA PET Scan Before Definitive Radiation Therapy for Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies the success rate of definitive radiation therapy (dRT) for prostate cancer (PCa) with or without planning based on PSMA PET. PSMA- PET-based dRT, may improve radiation therapy planning and patient selection for dRT, and potentially improve its outcome compared to dRT without PSMA PET (standard dRT).
Stage I Prostate Cancer American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) v8|Stage II Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fluorine F 18 DCFPyL|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Success rate of definitive radiation therapy (dRT), Will be measured as progression-free survival after initiation of dRT. Progression is defined as (whichever occurs first): A biochemical recurrence defined as a rise by 2 ng/mL or more above the nadir prostate specific antigen (PSA) (defined as the lowest PSA achieved) after radiotherapy with or without short-term hormonal therapy, appearance of metastasis or loco-regional recurrence (diagnosed by any imaging or biopsy), initiation of any new salvage therapy or death from any cause. Survival curves will be constructed using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of randomization to first occurrence of progression, assessed up to 5 years
Loco-regional progression free survival, Diagnosis of local recurrence or pelvic nodal disease (N1) can be obtained by any imaging or biopsy., Up to 5 years after the date of randomization|Metastasis-free survival after initiation of radiation therapy (RT), Diagnosis of extra-pelvic metastatic (M1) disease can be obtained by any imaging or biopsy., Up to 5 years after the date of randomization|Overall survival, Up to 5 years after the date of randomization|Change in initial treatment intent, Will estimate the proportion of subjects in the prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) group that have a change in the initial treatment intent and compute a 95% confidence interval for that proportion., Baseline up to 5 years after the date of randomization|PSMA positron emission tomography (PET) derived predictors of progression-free survival, Will use Cox-proportional hazards regression to assess PSMA PET predictors of progression-free survival., Up to 5 years after the date of randomization|PSMA PET derived predictors of overall survival, Will use Cox-proportional hazards regression to assess PSMA PET predictors of overall survival., Up to 5 years after the date of randomization
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the outcome of patients with unfavorable intermediate (IR) and high-risk (HR) prostate cancer (PCa) after standard dRT versus prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography (PET)-based dRT.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. In both arms, no other primary treatment should be given before RT.

Arm I: Patients do not undergo PSMA PET for dRT planning. Patients undergo standard of care dRT at the discretion of the treating radiation oncologist.

Arm II: Patients undergo PSMA PET for dRT planning. Patients then undergo dRT at the discretion of the treating radiation oncologist, who receives the PSMA PET result and images.

After completion of dRT, clinical follow-up of patients with their treating radiation oncologist will be obtained for 5 years. The investigators will rely on the medical records obtained from the treating physicians as the primary source of outcome data.