18F-fluciclovine PET in Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer Treated With Life Prolonging Therapies
This is a pilot phase 2 single-arm study, of men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Patients will be treated with any of the approved life-prolonging therapies: abiraterone 1000 mg daily plus prednisone 5 mg (or dexamethasone 0.5 mg) daily, enzalutamide 160 mg daily, or docetaxel 50 mg/m2 every two weeks or 75 mg/m2 every three weeks.
Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: 18F-fluciclovine PET Scan
Changes in 18F-fluciclovine PET scan for patients with mCRPC on treatment with Life Prolonging Therapies, To describe the 18F-fluciclovine PET findings for patients with mCRPC prior to starting treatment with Life Prolonging Therapies, and at 12 weeks after Life Prolonging Therapies treatment initiation., 12 weeks|PET scan vs. conventional CT and bone scan, A comparison of 18F-fluciclovine PET with conventional CT and bone scans for patients with mCRPC prior to starting treatment with life prolonging therapies, and at 12 weeks after starting life prolonging therapies; and to correlate these changes with PSA response and progression after starting life prolonging therapies., 12 weeks
Compare the PET scan results with the genomic alterations in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA), To understand disease heterogeneity and possible heterogenous progression and change in patient management as well as to compare the 18F-fluciclovine PET findings with genomic alterations found in ctDNA especially in the androgen receptor (AR) gene, using an NGS assay of patients with mCRPC treated with life prolonging therapies, 12 weeks
Prostate cancer is a hormonally-driven disease and androgens are key in the growth of both normal prostate and prostate cancer cells. Once mCRPC is evident, most patients receive a second-generation hormonal therapy to further suppress the synthesis or androgens (abiraterone) and to block androgen receptor (AR) activation, nuclear translocation and DNA binding (enzalutamide).

Conventional imaging of prostate cancer has limitations in staging, restaging after biochemical relapse, and response assessment. Functional imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) can target various aspects of tumor biology and is clearly superior in the detection of extra-prostatic disease. 18F-fluciclovine is a synthetic amino acid transported across mammalian cell membranes by amino acid transporters that are upregulated in prostate cancer cells.

18F-fluciclovine is approved for PET imaging to identify sites of prostate cancer recurrence in men with rising prostate specific antigen (PSA) following prior definitive treatment. This study describes the changes in 18F-fluciclovine PET scan and compare these results with PSA and conventional computerized tomography (CT) and bone scans, in mCRPC patients treated with abiraterone acetate-prednisone, enzalutamide or docetaxel.