Panobinostat and Ruxolitinib in Primary Myelofibrosis, Post-polycythemia Vera-myelofibrosis or Post-essential Thrombocythemia-myelofibrosis
This study will assess safety as well as establish a Recommended Phase II dose of the combination of panobinostat and ruxolitinib in patients with or without the JAK2V617F mutation who have been diagnosed with primary myelofibrosis (PMF), Post Essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis (PET MF), or Post-Polycythemia Vera Myelofibrosis (PPV MF).
Idiopathic Myelofibrosis|Post Essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis|Post Polycythemia-Vera Myelofibrosis
DRUG: panobinostat|DRUG: ruxolitinib
Rate of dose limiting toxicities at the different dose levels, Cycle 1 (a cycle = 28 days)
Rate of adverse events, serious adverse events, notable laboratory, vital signs and ECG results by dose level, From screening until safety follow up visit (30 days after last treatment), approx. 8.5 years|AUC of ruxolitinib and panobinostat at various dose levels, Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve, Ruxolitinib on days 1,2 and 6; Panobinostat on days 2-3 and days 6-7|Cmax of ruxolitinib and panobinostat at various dose levels, Cmax is the Peak Plasma Concentration, Ruxolitinib on days 1,2 and 6; Panobinostat on days 2-3 and days 6-7|Tmax of ruxolitinib and panobinostat at various dose levels, Tmax: The time of maximum observed concentration sampled during a dosing interval., Ruxolitinib on days 1,2 and 6; Panobinostat on days 2-3 and days 6-7
In 2011 the treatment goals for MF focused on symptom-orientated palliation and quality of life. Both ruxolitinib and panobinostat, as single agents, had shown significant improvement in both of those treatment goals and ruxolitinib had also shown greater reductions in splenomegaly compared to the standard of care at that time. To further the benefit seen with ruxolitinib in MF patients, panobinostat was added to the treatment regimen to act synergistically in the blockade of the dysregulated pathway driving this disease.

The study was conducted in 2 phases - an escalation phase and an expansion phase.

Escalation phase: the study utilised the Bayesian Logistic Regression Model (BLRM), incorporating escalation with overdose control (EWOC), which is a well established method for dose escalation in oncology trials. Following this process, successive cohorts of 3 newly enrolled patients received increasing doses of ruxolitinib and panobinostat until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase II dose (RPIID) was determined. Once the MTD and/or RPIID were suspected in a minimum of 3 patients, additional patients were enrolled to the same cohort level to reach a minimum of 9 evaluable patients. The process also included safety, PK/PD assessments and estimates of efficacy based on measures of splenic reduction at each dose level.

Expansion: following the determination of the MTD and/or RPIID, a dose expansion phase was conducted at that dose to further define the safety and tolerability of the combination. At least 13, and no more than 23, additional patients were to be enrolled into the expansion phase.