Phase III Study Evaluating Efficacy and Safety of Canakinumab in Combination With Docetaxel in Adult Subjects With Non-small Cell Lung Cancers as a Second or Third Line Therapy
This study was designed to evaluate the role of canakinumab in combination with docetaxel in subjects with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously treated with PD-(L)1 inhibitors and platinum-based chemotherapy.
Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Canakinumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|OTHER: Placebo
Safety run-in Part: Percentage of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Percentage of participants with DLTs. A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications that occurs within the first 42 days of docetaxel and canakinumab treatment., During the first 42 days of dosing|Randomized Part: Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to date of death due to any cause. The OS distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and associated 95% confidence intervals were calculated for each treatment group. If a subject was not known to have died, then OS was censored at the latest date the subject was known to be alive (on or before the cut-off date)., From randomization until death or final analysis data cutoff date (08-Jan-2021) whichever comes first (up to approximately (approx.) 18 months)
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as per investigator's assessment by RECIST 1.1. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were computed using Clopper and Pearson method.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Through final analysis data cutoff date of 08-Jan-2021 (assessed up to approx. 10 months for the safety run-in part and 18 months for the randomized part)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from first documented response of CR or PR to date of first documented progression or death, by investigator's assessment according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. The DOR distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and associated 95% confidence intervals were calculated for each treatment group.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From first documented response of CR or PR to date of first documented progression, death or final analysis data cutoff date (08-Jan-2021) whichever comes first (up to approx. 10 months for the safety run-in and 18 months for the randomized)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the percentage of participants with CR or PR or with stable disease (SD) as per investigator assessment according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. The 95% CIs were computed using Clopper and Pearson method.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Through final analysis data cutoff date of 08-Jan-2021 (assessed up to approx. 10 months for the safety run-in part and 18 months for the randomized part)|Randomized Part: Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the date of the first documented radiological progression by investigator assessment according to RECIST 1.1 response criteria or death due to any cause.

The PFS distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and associated 95% confidence intervals were calculated for each treatment group. If a participant did not have disease progression or die at the analysis cut-off date, PFS was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment., From randomization until disease progression, death or final analysis data cutoff date (08-Jan-2021) whichever comes first (assessed up to approx. 18 months)|Randomized Part: Time to Response (TTR), TTR is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documented response of either CR or PR, by investigator's assessment according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. The TTR distribution was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and associated 95% confidence intervals were calculated for each treatment group. Subjects without a confirmed CR or PR at the time of the analysis cut-off date were censored at the study-maximum follow-up time for subjects with a PFS event (i.e., disease progression or death due to any cause), or at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment for subjects without a PFS event.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From randomization until first documented response or final analysis data cutoff date (08-Jan-2021) whichever comes first (up to approx. 18 months)|Randomized Part: Time to Definitive 10-point Deterioration (TTD) Symptom Scores of Chest Pain, Cough and Dyspnea Per European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ) Lung Cancer (LC13) Questionnaire, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 comprises both multi-item and single-item measures of lung cancer-associated symptoms (ie, coughing, dyspnea, and chest pain) and treatment-related symptoms from conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy (ie. hair loss, neuropathy, sore mouth, and dysphagia). Scores for each scale and single-item range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating higher level of symptoms. TTD for chest pain, cough and dyspnea is defined as the time from randomization to the date of event, which is defined as at least 10 points absolute worsening from baseline of the corresponding scale score, with no later change below this threshold ie.\<10 points was observed or if this worsening was observed at the last assessment for the subject, or death due to any cause (whichever occurs earlier). If a subject did not have an event, TTD was censored at the last adequate assessment., From baseline through final analysis data cutoff date of 08-Jan-2021 (assessed up to approx. 18 months)|Randomized Part: Time to Definitive 10-point Deterioration in Global Health Status (GHS)/Quality of Life (QoL), Shortness of Breath and Pain Per EORTC QLQ-C30 Questionnaire, The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes 5 functional scales (physical,role,cognitive,emotional and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue,pain and nausea/vomiting), a GHS/QoL scale, and 6 single items (constipation,diarrhea,insomnia,shortness of breath,appetite loss and financial difficulties). For each scale and single-item, scores range between 0 and 100. A high score for functional scales/ GHS/QoL represents better functioning or QoL, a high score for symptom scales/single items represents significant symptomatology. TTD in GHS/QoL, shortness of breath and pain is defined as the time from randomization to the date of event, defined as at least 10 points absolute worsening from baseline of the corresponding scale score, with no later change below this threshold i.e.\<10 points was observed or if this worsening was observed at the last assessment for the subject, or death due to any cause (whichever occurs earlier). If a subject did not have an event, TTD was censored at the last adequate assessment., From baseline through final analysis data cutoff date of 08-Jan-2021 (assessed up to approx. 18 months)|Randomized Part: Change From Baseline in GHS/QoL, Shortness of Breath and Pain Scores as Per the EORTC QLQ C30 Questionnaire, The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea/vomiting), a GHS/QoL scale, and 6 single items (constipation, diarrhea, insomnia, dyspnoea, appetite loss and financial difficulties). For each scale and item, scores range 0-100. A high score for functional scales/QoL represents better functioning/QoL; a high score for symptom scales and items represents significant symptomatology. Changes from baseline in QoL, shortness of breath and pain scores are presented. For QoL, a negative change from baseline indicates improvement; for shortness of breath and pain a positive change from baseline indicates improvement. For subjects who discontinued treatment without disease progression, post-treatment efficacy visits 1, 2, 3 and 5 were conducted every 6 weeks (for the first 12 months since start of treatment) and every 12 weeks (after 12 months since start of treatment) until disease progression, Baseline, every 3 weeks from Week 3 until end of treatment, every 6 or 12 weeks post-treatment until progression (post-treatment efficacy visits), 7 and 28 days post progression through final analysis cutoff date of 08Jan2021 (up to approx. 18 months)|Randomized Part: Change From Baseline in Chest Pain, Cough and Dyspnea Scores as Per the EORTC-QLQ LC13 Questionnaire, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a 13-item questionnaire. It comprises both multi-item and single-item measures of lung cancer-associated symptoms (ie, coughing, dyspnea, and chest pain) and treatment-related symptoms from conventional chemotherapy and radiotherapy (ie, hair loss, neuropathy, sore mouth, and dysphagia). Scores for each scale and single-item range from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating higher ("worse") level of symptoms. Changes from baseline in chest pain, cough and dyspnea scores are presented. A positive change from baseline indicates improvement. For subjects who discontinued treatment without disease progression, post-treatment efficacy visits 1, 2, 3 and 5 were conducted every 6 weeks (for the first 12 months since start of treatment) and every 12 weeks (after 12 months since start of treatment) until disease progression, Baseline, every 3 weeks from Week 3 until end of treatment, every 6 or 12 weeks post-treatment until progression (post-treatment efficacy visits), 7 and 28 days post progression through final analysis cutoff date of 08Jan2021 (up to approx. 18 months)|Randomized Part: Change From Baseline in European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions-5 Level (EQ-5D-5L) Health State Scores, The EQ-5D-5L descriptive system provides a profile of the participant's health state in 5 dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression). For each of these dimensions, the participant self-assigned a score: from 1 (no problems) to 5 (extreme problems). The 5 digit health states obtained for each dimension was converted into a single mean index value based on the EQ-5D crosswalk value set for the UK using the time trade-off method. This index ranges from -0.594 (worst health) to 1.0 (best health). A positive change from baseline indicates improvement. For subjects who discontinued treatment without disease progression, post-treatment efficacy visits 1, 2, 3 and 5 were conducted every 6 weeks (for the first 12 months since start of treatment) and every 12 weeks (after 12 months since start of treatment) until disease progression, Baseline, every 3 weeks from Week 3 until end of treatment, every 6 or 12 weeks post-treatment until progression (post-treatment efficacy visits), 7 and 28 days post progression through final analysis cutoff date of 08Jan2021 (up to approx. 18 months)|Safety run-in Part: Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Canakinumab, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. Cmax of canakinumab was calculated from canakinumab plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics., Cycle 1 Day 1 at pre-dose and end of infusion and 24, 48, 168 and 336 hours (h) post-infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|Safety run-in Part: Time of Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax) of Canakinumab, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. Tmax of canakinumab was calculated from canakinumab plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics.

Actual recorded sampling times were considered for the calculations., Cycle 1 Day 1 at pre-dose and end of infusion and 24, 48, 168 and 336 hours (h) post-infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|Safety run-in Part: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to the Last Quantifiable Concentration (AUClast) of Canakinumab, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. AUClast of canakinumab was calculated from canakinumab plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics., Cycle 1 Day 1 at pre-dose and end of infusion and 24, 48, 168 and 336 hours (h) post-infusion. Each cycle is 21 days|Safety run-in Part: Cmax of Docetaxel, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. Cmax of docetaxel was calculated from docetaxel plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics., Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 2 Day 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, and 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each cycle is 21 days|Safety run-in Part: Tmax of Docetaxel, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. Tmax of docetaxel was calculated from docetaxel plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics.

Actual recorded sampling times were considered for the calculations., Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 2 Day 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, and 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each cycle is 21 days|Safety run-in Part: AUClast of Docetaxel, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. AUClast of docetaxel was calculated from docetaxel plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics., Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 2 Day 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, and 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each cycle is 21 days|Randomized Part: Pre-dose Plasma Trough Concentration (CTrough) of Canakinumab, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. CTrough of canakinumab was calculated from canakinumab plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics., Pre-dose on Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 6 Day 1, Cycle 12 Day 1 and Cycle 18 Day 1. Each cycle is 21 days.|Randomized Part: Cmax of Docetaxel, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. Cmax of docetaxel was calculated from docetaxel plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics., Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 4 Day 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, and 2, 4 and 6 hours post-dose. Each cycle is 21 days|Randomized Part: Tmax of Docetaxel, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. Tmax of docetaxel was calculated from docetaxel plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics.

Actual recorded sampling times were considered for the calculations., Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 4 Day 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, and 2, 4 and 6 hours post-dose. Each cycle is 21 days|Randomized Part: AUClast of Docetaxel, Venous whole blood samples were collected for pharmacokinetics characterization. AUClast of docetaxel was calculated from docetaxel plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods and summarized using descriptive statistics., Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 4 Day 1 at pre-infusion, end of infusion, and 2, 4 and 6 hours post-dose. Each cycle is 21 days|Randomized Part: Canakinumab Antidrug Antibodies (ADA) at Baseline, ADA prevalence at baseline was calculated as the percentage of participants who had an ADA positive result at baseline, Baseline|Randomized Part: Canakinumab ADA Incidence On-treatment, ADA incidence on-treatment was calculated as the percentage of participants who were treatment-induced ADA positive (post-baseline ADA positive with ADA-negative sample at baseline) and treatment-boosted ADA positive (post-baseline ADA positive with titer that is at least the fold titer change greater than the ADA-positive baseline titer), Pre-dose at Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 6 Day 1, Cycle 12 Day 1 , end of treatment, and 130 days after end of treatment through final analysis data cutoff date of 08-Jan-2021 (assessed up to 18 months). Each cycle is 21 days
This was a multicenter, Phase III study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of canakinumab in combination with docetaxel versus placebo in combination with docetaxel, as second- or third-line treatment. The study included adult subjects with advanced NSCLC whose disease had progressed after prior treatment with a PD-(L)1 inhibitor. Subjects had also been pre-treated with platinum-based chemotherapy, either given together with PD-(L)1 inhibitor or sequentially.

The study consisted of 2 parts:

* Part 1: Safety run-in. This part was conducted to confirm the Recommended Phase 3 Regimen (RP3R) of the canakinumab and docetaxel combination. Participants were treated for at least 2 complete cycles of treatment (21 days per cycle) for safety evaluation (DLT-Dose Limiting Toxicities) to define RP3R. Participants from the safety run-in part were treated until any discontinuation criteria were met. After treatment discontinuation, all participants were followed for safety evaluations during the safety follow up period (up to 130 days). Additionally, subjects who discontinued study treatment without prior documented disease progression continued efficacy assessments in the efficacy follow-up phase irrespective of the start of new antineoplastic therapy and until documented progressive disease as per protocol. After the RP3R was determined, enrollment in this part was closed and additional participants were enrolled in the randomized part (part 2) of the study. Ongoing patients from the safety run-in part continued their treatment at the assigned dose level according to the dose and schedule for the safety run-in part.
* Part 2: Randomized part. The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled part of the study opened after confirmation of the RP3R for the combination of canakinumab and docetaxel. Participants from the randomized part were treated until any discontinuation criteria were met as per protocol. After treatment discontinuation, all participants were followed for safety evaluations during the safety follow up period (up to 130 days). Additionally, subjects who discontinued study treatment without prior documented disease progression continued efficacy assessments in the efficacy follow-up phase irrespective of the start of new antineoplastic therapy and until documented progressive disease as per protocol.

Based on the lack of efficacy observed in the primary analysis, Novartis decided to halt canakinumab/placebo treatment. Subjects continued to receive docetaxel if they were deriving clinical benefit as per investigator assessment until discontinuation