Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Bladder Cancer Undergoing Radical Cystectomy
This phase II trial studies the side effects of pembrolizumab and to see how well it works in treating patients with bladder cancer who are undergoing surgery to remove the bladder. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Stage I Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Bladder Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Toxicity for Safety Monitoring (TOX), The primary endpoint is a joint endpoint classifying patients as having a toxicity of concern (TOX), defined as the presence of any of these: 1) any 30-day grade 3 or higher surgical complication at least possibly related to the treatment, 2) any toxicity at least possibly related to the treatment that prevents surgery, or 3) death between the start of the study and the 30-day post-surgical assessment as long as it is at least possibly related to pembrolizumab or surgery., From initiation of pembrolizumab, until 90 days post-surgery, up to a maximum of 5.5 months
Efficacy Endpoint, To explore anti-cancer immunological activity by evaluating surgical specimens for evidence of post-treatment and residual tumor compared to pre-treatment biopsy samples. The main mechanism for doing so will be via histopathologic review of the radical cystectomy specimen. MIBC participants are defined as responders if they achieve a pT1 stage or less. In the case of NMIBC a pT0 status will be used to identify complete response., Efficacy endpoint will be measured at time of surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To characterize the safety profile of pembrolizumab in patients with urothelial carcinoma undergoing radical cystectomy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore a signal of anti-cancer immunological activity by evaluating surgical specimens for evidence of post-treatment lymphocytic infiltration and residual tumor compared to pre-treatment biopsy samples.

II. To explore a signal of biomarker activity by evaluating surgical specimens and blood samples for established and not-so-established markers of response to pembrolizumab.

III. To report the tumor yield and sufficiency of tumor for immunological and biomarker activity.

IV. To examine the interaction of the human microbiome and pathologic response to pembrolizumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. About 4 weeks after treatment, patients then undergo radical cystectomy per standard of care.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up to 30 and 90 days.