Study of Bavituximab and Sorafenib In Patients With Advanced Liver Cancer
This is a non-randomized, open-label, single-institution phase I/II therapeutic trial of bavituximab and sorafenib in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). This study will be activated at the UT Southwestern Medical Center, comprised of The Harold C. Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, UT Southwestern Hospitals-St. Paul and Parkland Memorial Hospital System. Advanced HCC is defined as disease that is not amenable to surgical resection or orthotopic liver transplantation or is metastatic in nature.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Liver Cancer
DRUG: bavituximab (0.3 mg/kg) and sorafenib|DRUG: bavituximab (1.0 mg/kg ) and sorafenib|DRUG: bavituximab (3.0 mg/kg) and sorafenib
Median Radiographic Time to Progression (TTP) Calculated From Treatment Initiation to First Evidence of Disease Progression or Last Follow-up., Median radiographic time to progression (TTP) was calculated from treatment initiation to first evidence of disease progression or last follow-up by using the Kaplan-Meier method. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for time-to-progression data was calculated using Greenwood's formula., Treatment initiation to first evidence of disease progression or last follow-up, an average of 24 months|Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicity, Dose limiting toxicity by serious adverse events by CTCAE version 4.0, 8 months.
Safety, as Measured by the Number of Patients With Adverse Event Related to the Treatment That Experienced Grade 3 or Greater., Safety was measured by the number of patients with at least one adverse event as assess by NCI Common Terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE), Up to 3 months of patient enrollment (phase 1)|Median Months of Overall Survival Calculated From Treatment Initiation to Death or Last Follow-up., Median months of overall survival was calculated from treatment initiation to death or last follow-up by using the Kaplan-Meier method. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for median months of overall survival was calculated using Greenwood's formula., Treatment initiation to death or last follow-up, an average 24 months|Median Months of Disease Specific Survival Calculated From Treatment Initiation to Death From Advanced HCC (Hepatocellular Carcinoma) or Last Follow-up., Median months of disease specific survival was calculated from treatment initiation to first evidence of death from advanced liver cancer or last follow-up by using the Kaplan-Meier method. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for time-to-disease specific survival data was calculated using Greenwood's formula., Treatment initiation to first evidence of death from advanced liver cancer or last follow-up, an average of 12 months
The investigators are looking for men or women aged 18 years or older with hepatocellular carcinoma not suitable for surgical resection or hepatic transplantation. Prior locoregional therapy including but not limited to transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), radiofrequency ablation (RFA) or ethanol injection is allowed as long as the treatment was 4 weeks previous. Patients must be Child-Pugh A with no previous treatment with sorafenib or other vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors.