A Study of Etigilimab and Nivolumab in Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Tumors
This is an open-label, phase 1b/2, multicenter study designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamics of etigilimab in combination with nivolumab in participants with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. Participants will be assigned to receive etigilimab (every 2 weeks) in combination with nivolumab (240 milligrams \[mg\] every 2 weeks).
Solid Tumor, Adult|Advanced Solid Tumor|Metastatic Solid Tumor
DRUG: Etigilimab|DRUG: Nivolumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), The ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a best overall response (BOR) of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) per RECIST v1.1. CR: Disappearance of all target or non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph node (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From first dose of study drug until the date of first objective response (CR or PR) (maximum exposure: 638 days)
Number of Participants WithTreatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Any Adverse Events of Special Interests (AESIs), AESI Immune Related AEs, and AESI Infusion Reactions, TEAEs were defined as adverse events (AEs) with an onset date on or after the date of first administration of study drug up to 100 days after the last dose of study drug and before starting any subsequent cancer treatment. An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. AESIs were defined as events (serious or non-serious) which were of scientific and medical concern specific to the sponsor's product or program, for which ongoing monitoring and rapid communication by the investigator to the sponsor might be appropriate. A summary of other non-serious AEs and all SAEs, regardless of causality is located in the 'Reported AE section'., From first dose of study drug until 100 days after the last dose of study drug or the initiation of any subsequent cancer treatment, whichever occurs first (maximum exposure: 638 days)|Disease Control Rate (DCR) as Assessed Based on RECIST v1.1, The DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved CR, PR, and stable disease (SD). CR: Disappearance of all target or non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph node (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: Persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits; and no new lesions., From first dose of study drug until the date of first BOR (CR, PR, or SD) (maximum exposure: 638 days)|Duration of Response (DoR) as Assessed Based on RECIST v1.1, The DoR was defined as the time, in days, from the first of the 2 assessments required for confirmed PR or CR to the time of the progressive disease (PD) or death due to underlying cancer. CR: Disappearance of all target or non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Any pathological lymph node (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of the existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression., From first dose of study drug until the date of first overall response of PD or date of death due to underlying cancer (maximum exposure: 638 days)|Duration of Stable Disease (DoSD) as Assessed Based on RECIST v1.1, The DoSD was defined as the time, in days, from the first date of treatment until the first date at which PD was experienced or the participant died due to underlying cancer. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Unequivocal progression of the existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression., From first dose of study drug until the date of first overall response of PD or date of death due to underlying cancer (up to a maximum of 680 days)|Serum Concentrations of Etigilimab, Pre-infusion and 15 minutes post-infusion on Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 4 Day 43|Number of Participants With Anti-drug Antibodies (ADA) to Etigilimab, From first dose of study drug until 100 days after the last dose of study drug or the initiation of any subsequent cancer treatment, whichever occurs first (maximum exposure: 638 days)
This is an open-label, phase 1b/2, multicenter study designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety, tolerability, PK, and pharmacodynamics of etigilimab in combination with nivolumab in participants with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors. Participants will be assigned to receive etigilimab (every 2 weeks) in combination with nivolumab (240 mg every 2 weeks) and will continue until either unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Participants may continue to receive treatment beyond documented Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) or disease progression. Participants who are both checkpoint inhibitor (CPI) naive as well as participants who have received or progressed following a CPI will be eligible and include the following tumor types: head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), cervical carcinoma, gastric or gastroesophageal carcinoma, endometrial carcinoma, tumor mutation burden high (TMB-H), select rare tumors and ovarian carcinoma.