Efficacy and Safety of Intratumoral Injection of Recombinant Human Adenovirus Type 5 Combined With Tislelizumab and Lenvatinib in the Treatment of Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This prospective, single-arm study was aimed to evaluate the efficacy of recombinant human adenovirus type 5 injection combined with tislelizumab and lenvatinib in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. The recombinant human adenovirus type 5 was administered intratumorally on day 1 and 5 in cycle 1 and cycle 2. Lenvatinib was administered orally once daily started on day 1 of cycle 1 .Tislelizumab was administered intravenously every 3 week started on day 1 of cycle 3. The patient accepted the therapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurred or meet the end point of the study. The primary end point was ORR assessed by investigator using RECIST v1.1 .
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Recombinant Human Adenovirus Type 5|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Tislelizumab
Objective response rate using RECIST v1.1, ORR is defined as the proportion of patients who have a partial or complete response to therapy, 3 years
DOT, Duration of treatment, 3 years|DOR, Duration of response, 3 years|DCR, Disease control rate, 3 years|PFS, progression-free survival, 3 years|1-year overall survival rate, the overall survival rate at 1 year, 1years|AE, adverse events base on CTCAE v5.0, 3 years
This prospective, single-arm study was aimed to evaluate the efficacy of recombinant human adenovirus type 5 injection combined with tislelizumab and lenvatinib in the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. The recombinant human adenovirus type 5 was administered intratumorally on day 1 and 5 in cycle 1 and cycle 2. Lenvatinib was administered orally once daily started on day 1 of cycle 1 .Tislelizumab was administered intravenously every 3 week started on day 1 of cycle 3. The patient accepted the therapy until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurred or meet the end point of the study. The primary end point was ORR assessed by investigator using RECIST v1.1 .