Testing the Utilization of a Mobile Health App for Patients Undergoing Cystectomy Surgery for Bladder Cancer
This is a pilot study that involves human subjects undergoing cystectomy surgery for bladder cancer, testing the utilization of a mobile health app that promotes postoperative patient engagement, along with provider monitoring and care. The aim of this pilot study is to assess feasibility and acceptability of an Internet-based mobile health tool following cystectomy discharge. Objectives will be met by assessing weekly adherence, determining acceptability of mobile health questions post-surgery by patients and providers, and by obtaining participant feedback regarding the tool. Complications, re-admissions, and resource utilization will also be monitored throughout the study. The hypothesis is that an mobile health intervention that tracks PROs, provides educational content, and allows real-time feedback via internet-enabled devices has the potential to improve the quality of care delivery and overall patient experience following surgery by decreasing resource utilization and improving symptom control and communication.
Invasive Bladder Cancer
OTHER: Mobile Health app tool - Twistle
Feasibility of the tool (Twistle): percentage of patients using the tool at least once weekly, percentage of patients using the tool at least once weekly, 90 days postoperative
Acceptability of tool (Twistle): Percentage of patients being satisfied or very satisfied with the mobile health tool, Percentage of patients being satisfied or very satisfied with the mobile health tool, determined through an online post-intervention survey, addressing ease of use, convenience, privacy and confidentiality, and willingness to use the tool., 90 days postoperative
Radical cystectomy will be used as a model to examine the utilization of an electronic, internet-based mobile health intervention that can prospectively collect PRO data while providing timely feedback to patients and clinicians. This mobile health intervention will utilize a well-established platform (Twistle) that can be accessed through multiple technologies, including laptops, smartphones, and other computer-based systems. The objective is to evaluate the feasibility of pre-specified Patient Reported Outcomes and educational content in an existing mobile health communications platform which tracks patient symptoms and provides real-time feedback to patients and providers following cystectomy discharge. Patient Reported Outcome questions and responses will be inputted using validated questions with branching logic to drive feedback based upon responses. The intent of this study is to evaluate feasibility and acceptability of this mobile health tool following cystectomy discharge. Usual care will continue in coordination with this intervention.