Study to Determine Possible Effects of Apalutamide, Compared to Placebo, on EGFR Expression in Patients With Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
This phase I trial evaluates the effects of apalutamide, compared to placebo, on epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) protein expression in patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer. Apalutamide is in a class of medications called androgen receptor inhibitors. It works by blocking the effects of androgen (a male reproductive hormone) to stop the growth and spread of tumor cells. Previous studies have suggested that expression of a protein called EGFR on tumor cells is related to bladder cancer disease progression. This trial may help doctors evaluate if apalutamide has any effect on EGFR expression in patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer.
Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Recurrent Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Apalutamide|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Transurethral Resection of Bladder Tumor
Average Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) expression level, Will be analyzed as a continuous variable. A two-sample t-test will be conducted to test whether there are significant differences of the log-transformed EGFR expression level (measured by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction \[rtPCR\]) in normal appearing urothelium adjacent to tumor in participants treated with anti-androgen therapy versus (vs.) placebo participants. In case the normality assumption of the two-sample t-test does not hold, Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be performed as a sensitivity analysis. Considering androgen receptor (AR) status can be a treatment effect modifier, a regression analysis will also be performed with the log-transformed EGFR expression level as the outcome and treatment status (apalutamide or placebo), AR status, and treatment-AR interaction as the predictors., Up to 28 days
Effect of apalutamide on EGFR expression, A two-sample Wilcoxon rank-sum test will be conducted to compare the difference of EGFR expression in AR positive participants treated with and without apalutamide., Up to 28 days|AR expression in adjacent urothelium, Will evaluate the correlation between AR expression in adjacent urothelium with EGFR expression. Pearson correlation and Spearman's rank correlation will be calculated between the AR expression and EGFR expression., Up to 28 days|Toxicity of treatment, Toxicity of treatment may include breast tenderness, sexual or urinary side effects, seizure(s), depression, abnormal liver function tests. Descriptive statistics will be provided for these outcomes., Up to 28 days
AR and EGFR (and possibly phosphorylated EGFR [pEGFR]) staining levels, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Expression of direct androgen response gene (ADAR)-2, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Ki-67 expression, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Ki-67 expression in the AR+ subgroup, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Differences in expression of AR, EGFR, pEGFR, and Ki-67, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Demographics of two groups, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Change in EGFR expression in tumor from participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Morbidities of treatment, Morbidities of treatment may include breast tenderness, sexual or urinary side effects, seizure(s), depression, abnormal LFTs. Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Pre vs. post intervention urinary biomarkers, Comparison of pre vs. post intervention urinary biomarkers (CxBladderTM) in both groups, examining the 5 ribonucleic acids (RNAs) (by rtPCR) that make up the test, both as a group and each RNA separately. Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Analysis of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), Extracted from fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) blocks from neighboring normal urothelium and tumor tissue in participants treated with or without apalutamide. Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|Changes in the tumor immune microenvironment pre- and post-apalutamide, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions., Up to 28 days|Analysis of tumor (biopsy specimen) infiltrating CD8+ T-cells, The tumor immune microenvironment will be analyzed via multiplex immunofluorescence and spatial transcriptomics. Assessments will include CD8+ T-cell functional markers: TCF1/Tcf7 of CD44+, CD62L, PD-1, TIM3 and SLAMF6. Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days|AR, EGFR, and pEGFR in biopsies of tumors, Optional biopsy tissue will be used to compare AR, EGFR, and pEGFR in biopsies of tumors done at index cystoscopy vs. transurethral resection of bladder tumor in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo., At index cystoscopy and TURBT|Exploratory markers, Will be summarized by descriptive statistics such as rates and proportions and compared between placebo and apalutamide using nonparametric tests such as the Kruskal-Wallis test., Up to 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression measured by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (rt-PCR) in normal appearing urothelium adjacent to tumor (measured as a ratio relative to urothelium and lamina-propria specific markers) in participants treated with anti-androgen therapy versus (vs.) participants given placebo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine effect of apalutamide on EGFR expression (by rtPCR) in the subgroup of patients whose normal appearing urothelium adjacent to tumor expresses the androgen receptor (AR) (at least "1" by immunohistochemistry \[IHC\] score).

II. To correlate AR expression in adjacent urothelium (by IHC score) with EGFR expression by rtPCR in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo.

III. Comparison of toxicity in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Comparison of AR and EGFR (and possibly phosphorylated EGFR \[pEGFR\]) staining levels (low, moderate, high; by immunocytology) in pre-treatment vs. post-treatment bladder wash cytology.

II. To compare expression of direct androgen response gene (ADAR)-2 measured by rtPCR in normal appearing adjacent (to tumor) urothelium that does and does not express AR (by IHC), in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo.

III. Ki-67 expression (by IHC) in normal appearing urothelium adjacent to tumor in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo.

IV. Subgroup analysis of Ki-67 expression in the AR+ subgroup. V. Differences in expression of AR, EGFR, pEGFR, and Ki-67 (by semi-quantitative IHC) in tumor in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo.

VI. Comparison of demographics of two groups. VII. Change in EGFR expression by rt-PCR in tumor in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo.

VIII. Morbidities of treatment (breast tenderness, sexual or urinary side effects, seizure\[s\], depression, abnormal liver function tests \[LFTs\]).

IX. Comparison of pre vs. post intervention urinary biomarkers (CxBladderTM) in both groups, examining the 5 RNAs (by rtPCR) that make up the test, both as a group and each RNA separately.

X. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) mutation analysis in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) extracted from formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) blocks from neighboring normal urothelium and tumor tissue in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo.

XI. Define changes in the tumor immune microenvironment pre- and post-apalutamide through liquid biopsies of blood and urine using high-dimensional flow cytometry.

XII. Analyze tumor (biopsy specimen) immune microenvironment via multiplex immunofluorescence and spatial transcriptomics.

XIII. Compare AR, EGFR, and pEGFR in biopsies of tumors done at index cystoscopy vs. TURBT in participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo. (Optional) XIV. Other exploratory markers such as changes in the urinary microbiome in bladder cancer participants randomized to apalutamide versus placebo.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive apalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Patients undergo TURBT on day 21. Up to 28 days of apalutamide prior to TURBT is permitted in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood and urine sample collection throughout the study. Patients may optionally undergo tumor biopsy at baseline.

ARM 2: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-21. Patients undergo TURBT on day 21. Up to 28 days of placebo prior to TURBT is permitted in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo blood and urine sample collection throughout the study. Patients may optionally undergo tumor biopsy at baseline.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 20-30 days after TURBT.