The Effect of the Brochure on Testicular Self-Exam
This study aims to examine the effect of the educational brochure given to university students on testicular cancer and its early diagnosis on their health beliefs and self-examination; In non-randomized groups, pretest-posttest was conducted in a quasi-experimental design with control group. The research was carried out with students studying in the psychological counseling and guidance department of a state university in Turkey. The study group consisted of 92 students, 48 of which were experimental and 44 were control. Only the experimental group was given an educational brochure about testicular cancer and testicular self-examination. Data; Personal information form, testicular cancer and health beliefs scale about testicular self-examination were collected with the form for self-examination. In the evaluation of the data; Mann Whitney U, Wilcoxon and chi-square analyzes were performed.
Testicular Cancer
OTHER: Education brochure
rate of testicular self-exam, After the training brochure given to the students, they are expected to do testicular examination on their own., after 4 weeks
This study aims to examine the effect of the educational brochure given to university students on testicular cancer and its early diagnosis on their health beliefs and self-examination; In non-randomized groups, pretest-posttest was conducted in a quasi-experimental design with control group. The research was carried out with students studying in the psychological counseling and guidance department of a state university in Turkey. The study group consisted of 92 students, 48 of which were experimental and 44 were control. Only the experimental group was given an educational brochure about testicular cancer and testicular self-examination. Data; Personal information form, testicular cancer and health beliefs scale about testicular self-examination were collected with the form for self-examination. In the evaluation of the data; Mann Whitney U, Wilcoxon and chi-square analyzes were performed.