Early Transjugular Intrahepatic Portosystemic Shunt for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with main trunk portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) has poor prognosis. The main lethiferous factor is the upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage by PVTT-related portal hypertension. Studies have proven that early transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) with 72 hours after acute variceal bleeding is effective.
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Variceal Bleeding
PROCEDURE: Early TIPS
Rates of technical success, Patients did not occur gastrointestinal hemorrhage and the stent unobstructed 3 months after TIPS., 3 months
Rates of gastrointestinal hemorrhage, Patients occur gastrointestinal hemorrhage within 6 months after TIPS., 6 months|Progression-Free-Survival (PFS), Progression was defined as progressive disease by independent radiologic review., 12 months|Overall survival (OS), OS is the length of time from the date of inclusion until death from any cause., 12 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR, as determined based on tumor response according to RECIST 1.1, is defined as the proportion of all included patients whose best overall response (BOR) is either a complete response or partial response., 12 months|Adverse events, Safety will be evaluated according to the NCI CTCAE Version 4.03., 12 months
Portal hypertension by main trunk portal vein tumor thrombus (PVTT) is a severe disease. Patients usually die of gastrointestinal hemorrhage rather than tumor progression. It is vital to prevent the portal hypertension. Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is an effective method to alleviate the portal pressure. Then the risk of gastrointestinal hemorrhage is decreased which provides an opportunity for system therapy. Studies have proven that early transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) with 72 hours after acute variceal bleeding is effective for cirrhosis induced portal hypertension. However, the PVTT induced portal hypertension still needs clinical evidence. In this study, the investigators explore the early TIPS for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with main trunk portal vein tumor thrombus induced acute variceal bleeding. The investigators aim to added clinical evidence for this subtype of advanced HCC.