Rituximab, Yttrium Y 90 Ibritumomab Tiuxetan in Patients W/Relapsed Stage II, III, or IV Follicular NHL
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies, such as yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan, can find cancer cells and carry cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Giving combination chemotherapy together with rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying giving combination chemotherapy followed by rituximab and yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan to see how well it works in treating patients with relapsed stage II, stage III, or stage IV follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Lymphoma
DRUG: Methylprednisolone|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: In-Zevalin|DRUG: Y-Zevalin
Progression-free Survival at 1 Year, To evaluate the 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with relapsed follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) treated with ESHAP chemotherapy for cytoreduction (2 cycles) followed by Ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) radioimmunotherapy., 1 year|Median Time to Progression, To evaluate the median TTP of patients with relapsed follicular NHL treated with ESHAP chemotherapy for cytoreduction (2 cycles) followed by Ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) radioimmunotherapy., 5 years
Overall Response Rate, To evaluate the overall (ORR) response rate with relapsed follicular NHL treated with ESHAP chemotherapy for cytoreduction (2 cycles) followed by Ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) radioimmunotherapy. Descriptive and summary statistics for demographic and clinical variables obtained. The incidences of reported adverse events (AEs) tabulated. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis for PFS and OS performed on TPP. All the analyses were performed using Stata \[12\]., 5 years|Complete Response Rate, To evaluate the complete (CR) response rate with relapsed follicular NHL treated with ESHAP chemotherapy for cytoreduction (2 cycles) followed by Ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) radioimmunotherapy, 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To evaluate the 1-year progression-free survival of patients with relapsed stage II-IV follicular non-Hodgkin lymphoma treated with ESHAP chemotherapy for cytoreduction followed by yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan radioimmunotherapy.
* To evaluate the median time to progression in these patients.

Secondary

* To evaluate the overall and complete response rates in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE:

* ESHAP chemotherapy: Patients receive ESHAP chemotherapy comprising etoposide IV over 1 hour, methylprednisolone IV, cisplatin IV on days 1-4, and cytarabine IV over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Radioimmunotherapy: Between 4-6 weeks after completion of ESHAP chemotherapy, patients receive rituximab IV followed by indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Patients with \< 25% bone marrow involvement and expected biodistribution proceed to treatment. Patients receive rituximab IV followed by yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day 7, 8, or 9.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.