Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Malignant Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor That Progressed During or After Previous Treatment With Imatinib Mesylate and Sunitinib Malate
This phase II trial is studying how well sorafenib works in treating patients with malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumor that progressed during or after previous treatment with imatinib mesylate and sunitinib malate. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor
DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate
Objective Response Rate, Objective response (complete response (CR)+ partial response (PR)) will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. CR is the disappearance of all target lesions. PR requires at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD.

Computed Tomography (CT) scans for disease reassessment will be obtained pre-therapy and every 8 weeks. In addition to a baseline scan, confirmatory scans will also be obtained 4 weeks following initial documentation of objective response., Up to 5 years
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival will be defined as time from the start of treatment until progression (documented according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions) or death, whichever comes first.

CT scans for disease reassessment will be obtained pre-therapy and every 8 weeks., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be defined as time from the start of treatment until death from any cause., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate of patients with imatinib and sunitinib-resistant malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumor who are treated with BAY 43-9006.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity experienced by patients with imatinib and sunitinib -resistant malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumor who are treated with BAY 43-9006.

II. To determine progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with imatinib and sunitinib -resistant malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumor who are treated with BAY 43-9006.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine if mutational status of KIT and PDGFA in patients with imatinib- and sunitinib resistant malignant gastrointestinal stromal tumor correlate with response to BAY 43-9006.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to response to prior treatment with imatinib mesylate and sunitinib malate (imatinib mesylate- and sunitinib malate-responsive disease vs primary imatinib mesylate- and sunitinib malate-refractory disease).

Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.