Assistance Program for Outpatients Following an Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem-cell Transplant
After the initial monitoring period during hospitalization and isolation, patients with recent transplants are regularly monitored in monthly consultations but are still fragile, immunosuppressed and undergoing many treatments. The implementation of an outpatient assistance program for transplant patients should be feasible and allow for the improvement in medical-psycho-social care for the patients during this fragile and risky period, improve the satisfaction and quality of life for these transplant patients and assist in their socio-professional and familial reintegration.
Hematologic Neoplasms
OTHER: Outpatient assistance program for transplant patients (AMA-ALLO) based on a "navigation" nurse
Rate of patients with all the navigation nurse intervention files received at 100%, Rate of patients with all the navigation nurse intervention files received at 100%.

A file is received at 100% if the 4 following tasks are fully completed:

1. - patient called by nurse (and response from the patient at the set telephone appointment)
2. - completion of medical-psycho-social questionnaire (AMA-ALLO phone call form) by nurse with the patient's responses
3. - information and transmission of questionnaire results by nurse to the transplant physician
4. - physician/nurse decision for potential intervention (specialized consultation, consultation with the transplant physician, hospitalization, modification of treatments, additional exams to carry out, etc.), 12 months
Rate of refusal for participation in the study, Rate of patients who refused participating in the study, 12 months|Rate of ineligibility of the navigation nurse intervention files, Rate of ineligibility of the navigation nurse intervention files (a single incomplete task out of 4 per intervention file renders the file ineligible), 12 months|Quality of life for transplant patients, Quality of life for transplant patients is assessed with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy--Leukemia (FACT-Leu) questionnaire version 4. Fo each question, the 5 modality answers are: 0=not all, 1= a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much, Baseline|Quality of life for transplant patients, Quality of life for transplant patients is assessed with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy--Leukemia (FACT-Leu) questionnaire version 4. Fo each question, the 5 modality answers are: 0=not all, 1= a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much, 6 months|Quality of life for transplant patients, Quality of life for transplant patients is assessed with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy--Leukemia (FACT-Leu) questionnaire version 4. Fo each question, the 5 modality answers are: 0=not all, 1= a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much, 12 months
After the initial monitoring period during hospitalization and isolation, patients with recent transplants are regularly monitored in monthly consultations but are still fragile, immunosuppressed and undergoing many treatments. The implementation of an outpatient assistance program for transplant patients should be feasible and allow for the improvement in medical-psycho-social care for the patients during this fragile and risky period, improve the satisfaction and quality of life for these transplant patients and assist in their socio-professional and familial reintegration.