A Study of JNJ-67856633 in Participants With Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) and Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL)
The purpose of this study is to determine the recommended Phase 2 dose regimen or the maximum tolerated dose of JNJ-67856633 in participants with relapsed/ refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Chronic, B-Cell|Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
DRUG: JNJ-67856633
Part 1: Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), The DLTs are based on drug related adverse events and defined as any of the following events: any toxicity that would require discontinuation of treatment; and/or hematological / non-hematological toxicity of Grade 3 or higher., Approximately 21 days|Part 1 and Part 2: Number of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs) as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant participating in a clinical study that does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the pharmaceutical/biological agent under study., Up to 4 years and 11 months
JNJ-67856633 Plasma Concentrations, Concentration assessment will be done to evaluate the effect of JNJ-67856633., Up to 4 years and 11 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a partial response (PR) and complete response (CR) according to the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (iwCLL), non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia response criteria., Up to 4 years and 11 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Complete Response Rate, Complete response rate is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve a best response of CR according to the iwCLL, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia response criteria., Up to 4 years and 11 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Time to Response (TTR), TTR is defined for participants who achieved PR or CR as the time from the first dose of study drug to first response of PR or CR., Up to 4 years and 11 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Duration of Response (DoR), DoR is defined for participants who achieved PR or CR as the time between the date of initial documentation of PR or CR to the date of first documented evidence of disease progression or death, whichever comes first., Up to 4 years and 11 months
Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) represents a diverse set of diseases. Among them diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) represents the most common subtype of NHL, accounting for 30 percent (%) to 40% of all newly diagnosed cases. Mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma translocation protein 1 (MALT1) is a key mediator of the nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-kappaB) signaling pathway and has been shown to play a critical role in different types of lymphoma, including activated B cell-like (ABC) subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). JNJ-67856633 is a MALT1 inhibitor and will be administered orally. The study will evaluate the following: Dose Escalation (Part 1): One or more recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2Ds) of JNJ-67856633. Cohort Expansion (Part 2): JNJ-67856633 is well tolerated and achieves antitumor responses at the RP2D. The study consists of screening phase (less than or equal to 28 days before first dose), treatment phase (from Cycle 1 Day 1 till end of treatment visit \[within 30 (+7) days after the last dose\]) and post-treatment phase. A prescreening period may also apply to participants in select cohorts in Part 2. The total study duration will be approximately 4 years and 11 months. Efficacy assessments will include radiographic image assessments, positron emission tomography scan, bone marrow assessment, endoscopy or colonoscopy etc. Safety will be monitored throughout the study.