Electronic Symptom Monitoring Program for Triggered Palliative Referrals in Patients With Thoracic Cancer
This clinical trial evaluates earlier symptom management through remote electronic symptom monitoring (such as through an app on patient's phone), and accessibility of palliative care self-referral by patients with thoracic cancer and caregivers by proxy (legal representative). Thoracic cancer occurs in the chest and often causes symptoms for patients. Patients and/or their caregivers are often unable to attend in-person clinic visits for various reasons. The most frequently reported symptom by patients at initial palliative care consultations is pain, and caregivers' most common concerns are pain management for the patient, stress reduction, and fears about patient decline. Earlier palliative care referral can help control these symptoms before they worsen, providing a better quality of life for patients and caregivers. improve physical and emotional functioning for patients and caregivers in cancer care. This study may help researchers learn how an electronic symptom monitoring program may provide an earlier and more accessible way for patients with thoracic cancer to receive palliative care.
Malignant Thoracic Neoplasm
OTHER: Educational Activity|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Media Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
Frequency of symptom logging, Will estimate that ≥ 50% of patient participants will log symptoms at least monthly through the remote electronic symptom monitoring program., At 6 months after enrollment|Proportion of patients enrolled (Feasibility), Descriptive statistics will include study enrollment rates (eligible vs. ineligible participants, consented vs. refused), completion rate of weekly symptom monitoring (patient vs. caregiver by proxy), and person requesting palliative care services (patient vs. caregiver by proxy vs. medical provider), if applicable. Will be considered feasible if within 20% of target enrollment., At enrollment and 3 months|Symptom scores and Palliative Referral Association, Symptom scores (Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale revised with Constipation and Sleep \[ESAS-r-CS\]) reported by patients and caregivers will be tracked and their association with palliative care referral, if applicable, will be assessed., At enrollment and 3 months and 6 months|Patient and Caregiver Symptom Reporting Congruency, Descriptive statistics will be used to assess for congruency between patient and proxy-reported symptom assessments. Patients' oncologic treatment (chemotherapy, immunotherapy, radiation therapy, surgery) will be abstracted from the electronic medical record (EMR) at the time of each ESAS-r-CS survey completed by either the patient or caregiver by proxy., At enrollment and 3 months and 6 months
Palliative care referral patterns, Palliative care referrals pre- and post- launch of the SyMPLER study will be evaluated for trends. Historical control data collecting palliative referrals by month will be compared between groups (pre-post- launch)., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Develop and assess feasibility of a remote electronic symptom monitoring program with a prompted option for palliative care self-referral for patients or caregivers by proxy after diagnosis of a thoracic malignancy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate palliative care referral patterns after implementation of a remote electronic symptom monitoring program.

OUTLINE:

Patients and their caregivers use the electronic symptom monitoring program to log symptoms once a week (QW) for 24 weeks. Patients and their caregivers also watch a video and review education materials prior to starting the remote symptom monitoring program.

After completion of study intervention, participants are followed up to 2 years.