eHealth Diet and Physical Activity Program for the Improvement of Health in Rural Latino Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial studies how to improve the diet quality and physical activity level of Latino cancer survivors living in rural areas. The recommendation to eat a high-quality diet and engage in moderate-to-vigorous physical exercise may reduce cancer risk, improve cancer survival rate, and reduce associated conditions. However, it is not well understood how best to teach cancer survivors, especially Latino cancer survivors living in rural areas, to achieve and maintain diet and physical activity. Understanding how to build a culturally appropriate education that is effective may improve the diet quality and physical activity level of Latino cancer survivors.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Health Education|OTHER: Physical Activity|OTHER: Health Promotion and Education: Text Messages|OTHER: Health Promotion and Education: Web Site|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Feasibility: Retention, Number of participants that completed the follow-up (3 month) data collection. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3-months|Feasibility: Adherence for Text Messages, Number of participants who responded to 1 or more text messages. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Adherence of Grocery Deliveries, Number of times participant received all 6 grocery deliveries. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Adherence for Online Sessions, For the purpose of this feasibility study, participants who completed at least 3 of the 6 online sessions were assessed. Participants attend 6 online nutrition and PA education classes, cooking sessions, and participate in physical activities over 120 minutes each. Patients also receive text messages, electronic newsletters and have access to an interactive nutrition website Health Education: Attend nutrition and PA classes, and cooking sessions Physical Activity: Participate in physical activities This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability of Cooking Sessions, Acceptability of the cooking sessions was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability of Recipes, Acceptability of recipes was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability Nutrition and Physical Activity Sessions, Acceptability of the nutrition and physical activity sessions was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability of Nutrition Text Messages, Acceptability of the nutrition text messages was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability of Physical Activity Text Messages, Acceptability of physical activity text messages was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability of Website, Acceptability of the website was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery.This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability of FITBit, Acceptability of the FITBit was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery.This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability of Monthly check-in Calls, Acceptability of monthly check-in calls was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months|Feasibility: Acceptability of Contact With Study Staff, Acceptability of contact with study staff was assessed during the exit interview. The exit interview asked participants to respond to a series of 15-questions assessing the helpfulness of each intervention component (e.g., online session, FITBit, e-communications, etc). Response options include a 6-item Likert scale (1=not at all helpful to 5=very helpful). A space for written-qualitative responses was also provided to allow the participant to provide information about the context and recommendations related to the intervention components/delivery. This feasibility study has primary outcomes that are descriptive in nature and do not include statistical analyses. The outcome measure data table provide the feasibility results for the project., At 3 months
Nutrition Preferences: Fruit and Vegetables, Nutrition preferences were measured using 17-questions adapted from a battery developed and validated by the study team. The battery is titled "The Preferences and Self-Efficacy of Diet and Physical Activity Behaviors Questionnaires for Latinas" (preparing manuscript for submission). Participants were asked to rate their like or dislike for 11 specific fruits or vegetables (e.g., green cabbage, kale, turkey or veggie burgers, foods made with oil instead of butter or lard). For each fruit or vegetable listed they were asked to rate on a 5 point likert scale with 1=strongly dislike to 5=strongly like or respond with "never tried it"=0. Scores are averaged across the 17 items. Higher scores are considered a better outcome., Baseline and 3 months|Nutrition Self-Efficacy, Nutrition Self-efficacy was measured using 11-questions from a battery developed and validated by the study team. The battery is titled "The Preferences and Self-Efficacy of Diet and Physical Activity Behaviors Questionnaires for Latinas" (preparing manuscript for submission). Participants were asked to rate thow confident they are in their ability to engage in healthy dietary behaviors for one month. For each behavior listed they were asked to rate on a 5 point likert scale with 1=not at all confident to 5=extremely confident. Scores are averaged across the 11 items. Higher scores are considered a better outcome., Baseline and 3 months|Nutrition Knowledge, Nutrition knowledge was a single question. The value reflects a change in the percent of women who correctly answered the targeted number of daily serving intake of fruits and vegetables at baseline compared to 3-month follow-up. The correct answer was 5-9 servings per day., Change in correct nutrition knowledge response from baseline to 3 month follow-up|Physical Activity Preferences, Physical Activity preferences were measured using 8-questions from a battery developed and validated by the study team. The battery is titled "The Preferences and Self-Efficacy of Diet and Physical Activity Behaviors Questionnaires for Latinas" (preparing manuscript for submission). Participants were asked to rate their like or dislike for 8 specific types of physical activity (e.g., doing housework with vigorous effort, dancing in a group setting, playing with children with vigorous effort). For each activity listed they were asked to rate on a 5 point likert scale with 1=strongly dislike to 5=strongly like or respond with "never tried it"=0. Scores are averaged across the 8 items. Higher scores are considered a better outcome., Baseline and 3 months|Physical Activity Self-Efficacy, Physical Activity Self-Efficacy: Self-efficacy was measured using 5-questions from a battery developed and validated by the study team. The battery is titled "The Preferences and Self-Efficacy of Diet and Physical Activity Behaviors Questionnaires for Latinas" (preparing manuscript for submission). Participants were asked to rate how confident they are in their ability to engage in healthy physical activity behaviors given certain conditions (e.g., when you can't notice any improvements in your fitness, when you have many other demands on your time, when you feel a little stiff or sore) for one month. For each behavior listed they were asked to rate on a 5 point likert scale with 1=not at all confident to 5=extremely confident. Scores are averaged across the 5 items. Higher scores are considered a better outcome., Baseline and 3 months|Self-Reported Physical Activity: Time Sitting, Self-reported physical activity reflects change in time spent sitting (minutes/day). NOTE: The outcomes are reported as a change score (value at 3 months minus value at baseline), Baseline and 3 month follow-up|Self-Reported Physical Activity: Walking, Self-reported physical activity: walking (MET-minutes/week). NOTE: METs=metabolic equivalent of task. Walking in this case is defined as a light activity equivalent to \< 3 METs. The outcomes are reported as a change score (value at 3 months minus value at baseline)., Baseline and 3 month-follow-up|Self-Reported Physical Activity: Moderate to Vigorous Physical Activity, Self-reported physical activity includes moderate to vigorous physical activity (MET-minutes/week).

NOTE: METs=metabolic equivalent of task. Moderate to Vigorous Physical Activity is considered activities estimated at 3 or more METs. The outcomes are reported as a change score (value at 3 months minus value at baseline), Baseline and 3-month follow-up
OUTLINE:

Patients attend 6 online nutrition and physical activity (PA) education classes, cooking sessions, and participate in physical activities over 120 minutes each. Patients also receive text messages, electronic newsletters and have access to an interactive nutrition website.

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.