Optimal Perioperative Pain Control in Minimally Invasive Abdominal Cancer Surgery
This is a research study to evaluate the effectiveness of 3 different types of routine pain management regimens used during clinically indicated, minimally invasive oncologic (cancer) surgery. This project is considered "Research" and participation is voluntary. Upon enrollment in this study, the research team will collect data from the patient's medical records. The patient will undergo all of the normal testing and procedures required pre-operatively (standard of care). The study team will then randomly assign the patient (like a flip of a coin) to one of three different study arms for pain management during surgery:

1. Laparoscopic Transversus Abdominis Plane Block (LapTAP) with Local Anesthetic (LA)
2. Laparoscopic Transversus Abdominis Plane Block (LapTAP) only
3. Local Anesthetic (LA) only The patient will receive standard pre- and post-operative care according to clinical guidelines (routine care). The study team will collect information from the patient's medical record for the first 24 hours after their surgery and upon discharge. This information will include pain scores, amount of medication required, any side effects the patient may have experienced, and satisfaction with pain control. Participation in the study will end upon discharge from the hospital.
Oncologic Surgery|Cancer|Cancer Surgery|Hepatic Cancer|Gastric (cardia, Body) Cancer|Biliary Tract Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer Resectable|Gynecologic Cancers|Gastrointestinal Cancers|Colorectal Cancer|Minimally Invasive Surgical Procedures
PROCEDURE: Local Anesthesia|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Transversus Abdominis Plane block
Pain Score, Pain will be measured in the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) using Visual Analog Scale. Pain will be scored from zero to ten, with zero being no pain at all and ten being unbearable pain., Hourly, starting 1 hour post surgery for 24 hours, then at time of hospital discharge (on average 1 week)
Opioid Consumption, Opioid consumption (milligrams) within the first 24 hours post-surgery (standardize with Morphine equivalence)., up to 24 hours post surgery|Recovery Analgesic Time, Time to first rescue analgesic request, up to 24 hours post surgery|Adverse Event(s) Frequency, Frequency of any adverse events related to interventions, immediately post surgery up through discharge (on average of 1 week)|Adverse Event(s) Severity, Severity of any adverse events related to interventions, immediately post surgery up through discharge (on average of 1 week)|Patient Satisfaction with Pain Management, Will gauge patient perceptions of pain control and overall satisfaction with their treatment with a standardized Visual Analog Scale utilizing a zero to ten scale, with zero being completely dissatisfied and ten being completely satisfied., At discharge (on average of 1 week)
Traditional pain management strategies have heavily relied on the use of Local Anesthesia (LA). Laparoscopic Transversus Abdominis Plane block (LapTAP) has emerged as a new approach for postoperative pain control following minimally invasive surgery, promising enhanced pain control in comparison with traditional approaches. Preliminary investigations into LapTAP have shown promise, yet there remains a significant gap in comparative effectiveness research, especially juxtaposed against the more traditional LA. We propose a comprehensive three-arm superiority trial evaluating LapTAP in conjunction with LA, LapTAP alone, and LA alone. We intend to scrutinize the efficacy of each modality in managing postoperative pain specific to minimally invasive oncologic surgery. Findings from this trial will be used to refine clinical protocols, improve patient outcomes, and potentially standardize care in postoperative pain management for minimally invasive oncologic procedures.