Outcomes of Local Perforator Flaps in Oncoplastic Surgery
This is a single center experience of using local perforator flaps in partial breast reconstruction for breast tumors while evaluating cosmetic outcomes, patient satisfaction and well-being using a validated self-administered questionnaire.
Breast Tumor|Perforator Flap|Breast Cancer|Oncoplasty|Breast-Q
OTHER: No intervention was undertaken
Surgical techniques of pedicled local fasciocutaneous perforator flaps in partial breast reconstruction in terms of flap anatomy, Flap anatomy involves the type of flap, May 2018 to February 2021|Surgical techniques of pedicled local fasciocutaneous perforator flaps in partial breast reconstruction in terms of location of perforators, May 2018 to February 2021|Surgical techniques of pedicled local fasciocutaneous perforator flaps in partial breast reconstruction in terms of operative time, May 2018 to February 2021|Surgical techniques of pedicled local fasciocutaneous perforator flaps in partial breast reconstruction in terms of post-operative morbidities, May 2018 to February 2021
Cosmetic outcomes of patients following local perforator flaps in oncoplastic breast conserving surgery, Cosmetic outcomes will be measured using the validated BREAST-Q Breast-Conserving Therapy (BCT) domain version 2.0. Patient's answers are converted to a number from 0 (worst) to 100 (best) using the Q-Score tool., April 2020 to June 2021|Patient satisfaction following local perforator flaps in oncoplastic breast conserving surgery, Patient satisfaction will be measured using the validated BREAST-Q Breast-Conserving Therapy (BCT) domain version 2.0. Patient's answers are converted to a number from 0 (worst) to 100 (best) using the Q-Score tool., April 2020 to June 2021
Background \& Objectives: Various oncoplastic techniques have emerged over the years to preserve breast cosmesis and symmetry without compromising the principles of tumor excision. One of the newer techniques for breast volume replacement to achieve symmetry and cosmesis is the use of fasciocutaneous pedicled chest wall perforator flaps or local perforator flaps (LPF). The objectives of this study are to document the details of the surgical procedure as well as patient-reported satisfaction and well-being following the already performed surgical procedure using a validated BREAST-Q tool among Pakistani women.

Materials \& Methods: This prospective cross-sectional study will be conducted by enrolling all the 25 female patients who have undergone LPF for breast tumors at The Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi. Data related to the procedure will be collected on a pre-designed proforma. Cosmetic outcomes and patient satisfaction will be evaluated using 2 scales from BREAST-Q BCT domain version 2.0. The questionnaire will be self-administered by the patients during their routine follow-up in the clinic. Data will be analyzed using the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 23. Mean (SD) / median (IQR) will be computed for quantitative variables and frequency and percentages will be calculated for qualitative variables. 2 sample t-test will be applied. P-value ≤0.05 will be considered significant.