Phase II Metronomic Dosing, Etoposide, Cyclophosphamide, D0 Prostate Cancer
Based on data supporting the use of cyclophosphamide and etoposide both as single agents in combination and a Phase I study showing acceptable toxicity with a chronic dosing regimen, we propose a Phase II clinical trial. This protocol establishes a model that will test the hypothesis that the use of etoposide and cyclophosphamide early in the course of prostate cancer progression, when fewer tumor cells are present, will have greater anti-tumor activity. We plan to treat patients with stage D0 prostate cancer to assess toxicity and anti-tumor activity.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
PSA Response Rate, The PSA response rate is the percentage of patients who have a PSA response. A PSA response will be considered a PSA decline of at least 50% must be confirmed by a second PSA value four or more weeks later. The reference PSA for these declines should be a PSA measured within 2 weeks prior to the initiation of therapy. Patients may not demonstrate clinical or radiographic evidence of disease progression during this period., 5 years
Toxicities Related to Chronic Administration of Etoposide and Cyclophosphamide in Patients With Stage D0 Prostate Cancer., All patients who receive one dose of protocol therapy will be evaluable for toxicity. A total of 15 patients received at least one dose of protocol therapy. Adverse events are described in Adverse Event section., 5 years
Based on data supporting the use of cyclophosphamide and etoposide both as single agents in combination and a Phase I study showing acceptable toxicity with a chronic dosing regimen, we propose a Phase II clinical trial. This protocol establishes a model that will test the hypothesis that the use of etoposide and cyclophosphamide early in the course of prostate cancer progression, when fewer tumor cells are present, will have greater anti-tumor activity. We plan to treat patients with stage D0 prostate cancer to assess toxicity and anti-tumor activity.