Adenovirus Mediated Suicide Gene Therapy With Radiotherapy in Progressive Astrocytoma.
The primary goal of this Phase I study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose of oncolytic adenovirus mediated double suicide-gene therapy in combination with fractionated stereotactic radiosurgery in patients with recurrent high-grade astrocytoma undergoing resection.
Malignant Glioma of Brain|Astrocytoma|Malignant Astrocytoma|Brain Tumor|Glioma|Brain Cancer|Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme|GBM
BIOLOGICAL: Ad5-yCD/mutTKSR39rep-ADP adenovirus and fractionated stereotactic radiosurgery (fSRS)
Maximum Tolerated Dose, The primary objective is to determine the maximum tolerated dose of injected of Ad5-yCD/mutTKSR39rep-ADP adenovirus into the resection cavity at the time of surgery., 30 days
1. Assessment of antitumor immune response, Assessment of antitumor immune response by serum levels of interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) measured by ELISA and will be described by pico-gram per milliliter (pg/mL)., Pre-surgery (day 0), 3, 7, 14, 21, 30, 90 days.|2. Assessment of change in antitumor immune response by peripheral blood monoclonal cell (PBMC) counts, Assessment of change in antitumor immune response by peripheral blood monoclonal cell (PBMC) counts measured by flow cytometry, Pre-surgery (day 0), 3, 7, 14, 21, 30, 90 days.|Assessment of antitumor immune response by using antibodies against surface markers, Assessment of antitumor immune response by using antibodies against surface markers (CD3, CD56, CD4, CD8, CD45, CD69)., Pre-surgery (day 0), 3, 7, 14, 21, 30, 90 days.
Quality of life as assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30, Assessment of quality of life (QOL) by using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) tools consisting of the EORTC QLQ-C30, Pre-surgery (day 0), 30 days, 90 days|Quality of life as assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-BN20, Assessment of quality of life (QOL) by using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-BN20, Pre-surgery (day 0), 30 days, 90 days
Detailed study description:

Patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) or progressive high grade astrocytoma who are scheduled to undergo repeat surgery are eligible. After the removal of as much tumor tissue as possible, a modified oncolytic adenovirus is injected into the wall of the resection cavity and any residual tumor tissue. The goal of this study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the injected adenovirus. This treatment is combined with a combination of oral 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC) and valganciclovir (vGCV) prodrug therapy. Following the surgery, patients will be treated with fractionated radiosurgery (fSRS). Patients will be monitored for 30 days before they start on next line anti-cancer therapy.