Cisplatin and Fluorouracil Compared With Carboplatin and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Inoperable Locally Recurrent or Metastatic Anal Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well cisplatin and fluorouracil work compared with carboplatin and paclitaxel in treating patients with anal cancer that cannot be removed by surgery, has come back at or near the same place as the primary tumor, or spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, fluorouracil, carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether cisplatin and fluorouracil are more effective than carboplatin and paclitaxel in treating anal cancer.
Anal Basaloid Carcinoma|Anal Canal Cloacogenic Carcinoma|Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Anal Canal Carcinoma|Recurrent Anal Canal Carcinoma|Stage IIIB Anal Canal Cancer|Stage IV Anal Canal Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Best ORR defined as the percentage of patients achieving confirmed partial (PR) or complete responses (CR) as per RECIST v1.1, The ORR will be summarized as the percentage (including 95% confidence intervals) of responders and presented by treatment group and will be compared (as exploratory endpoint) between treatment groups using a chi-squared test., Up to 3 years
Anti-tumor activity and magnitude of response, Anti-tumor activity and magnitude of response will be captured by waterfall plot analyses. The percentage change in tumor size from baseline to the time of best response will be plotted by patients (ordered from worst to best) and bars colored according to best response., Up to 3 years|Best ORR of non-irradiated lesions defined as the percentage of patients achieving confirmed PR or CR as per RECIST v1.1 of non-irradiated sites of disease, The ORR of non-irradiated lesions will be summarized as the percentage (including 95% confidence intervals) of responders and presented by treatment group and will be compared (as exploratory endpoint) between treatment groups using a chi-squared test., Up to 3 years|Changes in QOL, QOL will be evaluated using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life and EuroQOL-5 dimension-5 level questionnaires. Differences from baseline will be compared between arms of the study using the two sample t-test or Wilcoxon non-parametric method as appropriate., Baseline to up to 3 years|DCR defined as CR, PR, or SD assessed according to RECIST criteria v1.1, DCR will be summarized as the percentage (including 95% confidence intervals) of responders and presented by treatment group and will be compared (as exploratory endpoint) between treatment groups using a chi-squared test., At 24 weeks post treatment start|DCR defined as CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) assessed according to RECIST criteria v1.1, DCR will be summarized as the percentage (including 95% confidence intervals) of responders and presented by treatment group and will be compared (as exploratory endpoint) between treatment groups using a chi-squared test., At 12 weeks post treatment start|Feasibility in terms of proportion of centers that successfully recruit at least one patient, The proportion of centers engaging will be presented with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 36 months|Feasibility in terms of recruitment rate, The recruitment rate will be calculated overall centers and by country and center., Up to 36 months|OS, The Kaplan Meier estimates of OS over time and median OS with associated 95% confidence intervals will be presented by treatment and (as exploratory endpoint) compared using a log rank test. Cox multivariate regression analysis will be used (as exploratory analysis) to calculate the hazard ratio between treatments along with its 95% confidence interval. The treatment effect will be adjusted for the stratification factors and other identified prognostic factors (e.g. time to disease relapse \& whether pre-treated with platinum) in a multivariate setting., From the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 12 months|PFS, The Kaplan Meier estimates of PFS over time and median PFS with associated 95% confidence intervals will be presented by treatment and (as exploratory endpoint) compared using a log rank test. Cox multivariate regression analysis will be used (as exploratory analysis) to calculate the hazard ratio between treatments along with its 95% confidence interval. The treatment effect will be adjusted for the stratification factors and other identified prognostic factors (e.g. time to disease relapse \& whether pre-treated with platinum) in a multivariate setting., From the date of randomization to the date of confirmed clinical/radiological progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 12 months|Proportion of patients experiencing grade 3-5 toxicity graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, The proportion of patients experiencing grade 3-5 toxicity will be compared on a regimen basis using the chi-squared test. Fisher's exact test will be used when expected cell frequencies are \< 5., Up to 3 years|Sensitivity analysis of ORR, Up to 3 years
Changes in expression of tumor biomarkers, Multivariate analyses will be performed to evaluate the effect of known prognostic factors and biomarkers on outcomes observed., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate best overall response rate (ORR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall survival (OS). II. Progression free survival (PFS). III. Disease control rate (DCR) (stable disease \[SD\] or better) at 12 and 24 weeks.

IV. Best ORR of non-irradiated lesions. V. Anti-tumor activity and magnitude of response as captured by waterfall plot analyses.

VI. Toxicity. VII. Quality of life (QOL). VIII. Feasibility of conducting a multicenter international study on squamous cell carcinoma of the anus (SCCA) and recruit within a reasonable time frame.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explorative biomarker analysis.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1-4 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-4. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with complications associated with the central venous access which prevent further infusion of fluorouracil and only after discussion with the Chief Investigator may receive capecitabine twice daily (BID) on days 1-4.

ARM B: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks.