Clinical Study of Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Recurrent/Refractory Yolk Sac Tumor in Children
Remarkable progress has been made in treating germ-cell tumor (GCT) through the use of platinum-based regimens. However, part of yolk sac tumor (YST) with cisplatin resistance or recurrence is nevertheless prone to relapse after second-line treatment. This leaves a gap in effective treatment, which needs to be filled by novel therapeutic approaches. This paper is the first one to report the treatment combining sirolimus with nab-paclitaxel, ifosfamide, and carboplatin (S-TIC) for children with repeated relapsed or refractory yolk sac tumor (rrrYST).
Germ Cell Tumor|Yolk Sac Tumor
DRUG: sirolimus combined with chemotherapy in the treatment of recurrent/refractory yolk sac tumor in children
Objective Response Rate Allocation 'Non-Randomized' implies that this is a multi-arm study, but only one arm has been specified. Objective Response Rate, ORR, 12weeks
Progression-free Survival, PFS, 12weeks
According to the latest relevant foreign case analysis reports and clinical trial results, the TIP regimen remains the recommended treatment for patients with recurrent and refractory malignant germ-cell tumors based on previous data. Carboplatin has been proven effective and less toxic in children with MGCTs, while cisplatin is more commonly used in early stages. In our research group\&#39;s previously explored TIC scheme (albumin paclitaxel + ifosfamide + carboplatin), cisplatin is often substituted with carboplatin. Additionally, albumin paclitaxel replaces traditional paclitaxel due to its lower adverse reaction rate and higher tumor tissue uptake accumulation, forming the TIC regimen. Our preliminary clinical work has shown that the TIC regimen effectively improves remission rates of recurrent refractory germ cell tumors, particularly yolk sac tumors. For a small number of children who are not responsive to the TIC regimen, combining Sirolimus (an mTOR inhibitor) significantly enhances remission rates of recurrent refractory yolk sac tumors. This approach can potentially lead to cure or achieve surgery and radiotherapy within a curative timeframe. Therefore, this study aims to determine the efficacy of combining mTOR inhibitor Sirolimus with the TIC chemotherapy regimen (albumin-paclitaxel + isocyclophosphamide + carboplatin) in treating recurrent or refractory vitelline cyst tumors, providing a novel and effective therapeutic option for children with recurrent and refractory MGCTs.