Decision Aids to Improve Knowledge in Patients With Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies how well decision aids work in improving knowledge in patients with prostate cancer. Decision aids may improve patients' knowledge of their condition and options for treatment, and may also help when talking with their doctor.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Knowledge Assessed by Prostate Cancer Treatment Questionnaire, The primary outcome, knowledge, will be assessed by a standardized questionnaire (i.e., Prostate Cancer Treatment Questionnaire) administered once, immediately after the clinical consultation while the patient is still at the study site. The number correct from this 12-item measure will be reduced to a proportion of total number correct. With 1.0 (12 out of 12 item average) being the best possible outcome and 0.0 (0 out of 12 item average) the worst possible outcome, 12 months
Decisional Quality as Measured by Decisional Regret Scale, The Decisional Regret Scale is a short, 5-item scale measuring "distress or remorse after a (health care) decision." The instrument has been validated in other decision aid studies. Questions are answered on a 5-point agreement scale. A score of 0 means no decisional regret and 5 is the maximum level of regret. The continuous scores were then grouped into two categories, 0 (no regret) and 1+ (at least some regret)., 12 months|Quality of Life Assessed by Questionnaire, The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composit (EPIC-26) measures health-related quality of life and returns summary scores for urinary, bowel, sexual, and hormonal domains with high test-retest reliability and internal consistency. Scores will be converted into continuous summary scores using standard algorithms. For the EPIC-26 questionnaire, scores were transformed into 0 to 100 scales, with a score of 0 represented the worst possible health-related quality of life and a score of 100 representing the most favorable health-related quality of life. The questionnaire will be administered once; 12 months after the patient's initial consultation., 12 months|Utilization as Determined by Chart Review, Will be categorized by the type of treatment the patient elected to receive. Will be compared across intervention arms., 12 months
This randomized phase III trial studies how well decision aids work in improving knowledge in patients with prostate cancer. Decision aids may improve patients' knowledge of their condition and options for treatment, and may also help when talking with their doctor.