Improving Survival of COlorectal LIver Metastases by RFA-mediated Immunostimulation
To examine radio frequency ablation as a treatment supplement to stimulate immunogenicity and improve survival for patients undergoing curative-intent surgery for colorectal liver metastases.
Liver Metastasis Colon Cancer
DEVICE: RFA (radiofrequency ablation)
Overall survival, Median survival in each arm, 3 years
One-year survival, One-year survival in each arm, 1 year|Two-year survival, Two-year survival in each arm, 2 years|Three-year survival, Three-year survival in each arm, 3 years|Recurrence rate, Recurrence rate at 1, 2, and 3 years follow-up, 1, 2, and 3 years
Complications, Immediate postoperative complications (bleeding, surgical site infection, intraabdominal abscesses, bile leak), 30-day postoperatively
PURPOSE:

To investigate the impact of immunostimulation using radio frequency ablation (RFA) on survival in patients undergoing curative-intent surgery for colorectal liver metastases (CRLM).

HYPOTHESIS:

RFA-mediated partial destruction of CRLM will stimulate the immune system to recognize otherwise hidden cancer antigens, which in turn will improve survival by inhibiting micrometastases and recurrence.

BACKGROUND:

CRLM affects around 1,600 individuals in Denmark each year. State-of-the-art treatment includes liver resection, RFA treatment, radiation therapy, and chemotherapy. Of all individuals undergoing surgery, 50% will experience local or distant recurrence of the disease within five years. Although liver resection is the gold standard, RFA treatment has evolved considerably in recent years. RFA is a parenchymal-sparing treatment for hepatic malignancies, inducing a localized coagulation necrosis of the tumor. This leads to release of tumor antigens, which activates the patients' immune system. However, many cancer cells, including those from CRLM, have the ability to hide their antigens to the patients' immune systems. Using RFA as immunostimulation prior to surgery, these antigens may become visible to the immune system, which in turn can help eradicating all tumor cells and decrease the risk of tumor recurrence. Combined, this likely improves survival.

METHODS:

220 patients with CRLM planned for surgery will be enrolled in this study. Patients will be randomized to +/- RFA treatment before surgery. Under guidance of ultrasonography, a single-electrode RFA-needle is placed in a CRLM with a diameter of at least 3 cm, which is later going to be resected. In 20 of the patients, we will draw blood samples for determination of immune status both pre- and postoperatively. All patients will be part of a work-up with regular CT-scans.

ENDPOINTS:

Disease free survival and overall survival. Secondarily, we will examine the effect of RFA treatment of tumors on the innate and adaptive immune system in 20 patients