Bowel Dysfunction After Low Rectal Resection. an Pilot Study Using Psyllium Husk in Rectal Cancer Patients.
Rectal cancer constitutes 1/3 of more than 4500 annually diagnosed cases of colorectal (CRC) in Norway. With the advances in radiochemotherapy, and surgical techniques, the long-term survival rate is increasing after surgery regardless of the rising incidences, with a 73% 5-year survival rate in Norway (89% for stage I-III cancer). Low anterior resection (LAR) is the most commonly performed surgical procedure with curative intent with over 500 procedures per year in Norway alone. 80 % of patients subjected to LAR suffer from the LAR syndrome (LARS) which includes grades of bowel incontinence, urgency and tenesmus contributing to reduced quality of life (QoL). Suggested means of management have been advocated without preceding randomized trials. Psyllium husk has been suggested as a nutritional supplement for symptom reduction in patients suffering from LARS, but data is limited and no larger, randomized studies regarding its effect on patients with low anterior resection syndrome have been conducted. In this pilot study preceeding a placebo-controlled RCT, the investigators aim to improve documentation of a proposed management strategy. The investigators anticipate that a reduction in intestinal symptomburden will increase QoL for this large patientgroup.
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome|Quality of Life (QOL)
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Psyllium husk
LARS score, Low anterior resection syndrome score (0-42 points) 0-20: No LARS 21-29: Minor LARS 30-42: Major LARS, At baseline, at 4 and 8 weeks of intervention
Quality of Life (QoL), PROMs for self-evaluation of QoL:

EQ-5D-5L VAS score (0-100 were 0 is the worst possible health and lowest quality of life and 100 is the best possible health and highest quality of life), At baseline, at 4 and 8 weeks of intervention
Rectal cancer constitutes 1/3 of more than 4500 annually diagnosed cases of colorectal (CRC) in Norway. With the advances in radiochemotherapy, and surgical techniques, the long-term survival rate is increasing after surgery regardless of the rising incidences, with a 73% 5-year survival rate in Norway (89% for stage I-III cancer). Low anterior resection (LAR) is the most commonly performed surgical procedure with curative intent with over 500 procedures per year in Norway alone. 80 % of patients subjected to LAR suffer from the LAR syndrome (LARS) which includes grades of bowel incontinence, urgency and tenesmus contributing to reduced quality of life (QoL). Suggested means of management have been advocated without preceding randomized trials. Psyllium husk has been suggested as a nutritional supplement for symptom reduction in patients suffering from LARS, but data is limited and no larger, randomized studies regarding its effect on patients with low anterior resection syndrome have been conducted. In this pilot study preceeding a placebo-controlled RCT, the investigators aim to improve documentation of a proposed management strategy. The investigators anticipate that a reduction in intestinal symptomburden will increase QoL for this large patientgroup.