Efficacy of Antibiotic Short Course for Bloodstream Infections in Acute Myeloid Leukemia Patients With Febrile Neutropenia
There is no specific recommendation about antimicrobial treatment length for documented infections in chemotherapy induced febrile neutropenia. The aim of this study was to compare long versus short antibiotic course for bloodstream infection treatment in acute myeloid leukemia patients during febrile neutropenia. This monocentric retrospective comparative study included all consecutive bloodstream infection episodes among acute myeloid leukemia patients with febrile neutropenia for 3 years (2017-2019). Episodes were classified regarding the length of antibiotic treatment, considered as short course if the treatment lasted ≤7 days, except for nonfermenting bacteria and Staphylococcus aureus or lugdunensis for which the threshold was ≤10 days and ≤14 days, respectively. The primary outcome was the number of bloodstream infection relapses in both groups within 30 days of antibiotic discontinuation.
Bloodstream Infection|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Febrile Neutropenia
DRUG: Antibiotic
Bloodstream infection relapses, The primary outcome was to compare the number of bloodstream infection relapses in both groups within 30 days of antibiotic discontinuation., within 30 days of antibiotic discontinuation
Mortality, Comparison of mortality rate within 30 days of antibiotic discontinuation, within 30 days of antibiotic discontinuation|Epidemiology of bacteria, Distribution of bacteria responsible for bloodstream infection, at baseline|Risk factors for relapses, Analyse of risk factors for bloodstream infection relapses, within 30 days of antibiotic discontinuation
There is no specific recommendation about antimicrobial treatment length for documented infections in chemotherapy induced febrile neutropenia. The aim of this study was to compare long versus short antibiotic course for bloodstream infection treatment in acute myeloid leukemia patients during febrile neutropenia. This monocentric retrospective comparative study included all consecutive bloodstream infection episodes among acute myeloid leukemia patients with febrile neutropenia for 3 years (2017-2019). Episodes were classified regarding the length of antibiotic treatment, considered as short course if the treatment lasted ≤7 days, except for nonfermenting bacteria and Staphylococcus aureus or lugdunensis for which the threshold was ≤10 days and ≤14 days, respectively. The primary outcome was the number of bloodstream infection relapses in both groups within 30 days of antibiotic discontinuation.