Efficacy of AFL-assisted PDT With Short Incubation Time in Actinic Keratosis
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) using methyl aminolevulinate (MAL) is an effective first-line treatment for actinic keratosis (AK). Erbium: yttrium-aluminium-garnet (Er:YAG) ablative fractional laser-assisted MAL-PDT (AFL-PDT) has shown significant benefit for the treatment of AK. However, knowledge on the optimal photosensitizer incubation time for AFL-PDT is limited
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: 2h-AFL-PDT|DRUG: 3h-AFL-PDT|DRUG: 3hr-MAL-PDT
Difference of the efficacy between 3h-AFL-PDT, 2hr-AFL-PDT and 3h-MAL-PDT, The response was classified as either complete response (complete disappearance of the lesion) or incomplete response (incomplete disappearance of the lesion), Efficacy was evaluated at 3 months and 12 months after treatment
Difference of the cosmetic outcome between 3h-AFL-PDT, 2hr-AFL-PDT and 3h-MAL-PDT, It was graded as excellent (slight redness or pigmentation change), good (moderate redness or pigmentation change), fair (slight-to-moderate scarring, atrophy, or induration), or poor (extensive scarring, atrophy, or induration)., Cosmetic outcome was assessed by each investigator for all lesions that achieved a complete response at 12 months
Difference of the recurrence rates and safety between 3h-AFL-PDT, 2hr-AFL-PDT and 3h-MAL-PDT, If the case of complete response of lesions, all patients were reviewed at 12 months to check recurrence.

Adverse events reported by the patient were noted at each follow-up visit, including severity, duration, and need for additional therapy. All events due to PDT were described as phototoxic reactions(e.g. erythema, burning sensation, swelling, bleeding), within 12 months after each treatment
Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is widely used in the treatment of superficial skin cancer. It has an excellent cosmetic outcome, and it could be considered the first-line therapy for Actinic keratosis (AK). In PDT incubation time is required so that the photosensitizer can be converted to PpIX. The recommended treatment regimen of PDT requires a relatively long incubation time with ALA (4 hours) and MAL (3 hours) before illumination. Theoretically, ablative fractional laser (AFL) pre-treatment may facilitate the penetration and distribution of topically applied drugs, since the ablated laser holes extend into the dermis, thereby possibly acting as channels for drug uptake. However, knowledge on the optimal photosensitizer incubation time for AFL-PDT is limited. The objectives of this study were to compare the efficacy, recurrence rate, cosmetic outcome, and safety between AFL-PDT with 2 and 3hours of incubation vs. conventional MAL-PDT in patients with facial and scalp AK.