Study of Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab Coformulation (MK-7684A) in Combination With Chemotherapy Versus Pembrolizumab Plus Chemotherapy in Participants With Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (MK-7684A-007/KEYVIBE-007)
The primary hypothesis is that pembrolizumab/vibostolimab (MK-7684A) in combination with chemotherapy is superior to pembrolizumab in combination with chemotherapy with respect to overall survival (OS) in treatment-naïve metastatic participants with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall Survival (OS) in Participants with Programmed Cell Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Tumor Proportion Score (TPS) ≥1%, OS is defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause., Up to approximately 30 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to date of death due to any cause., Up to approximately 30 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first as assessed by Response Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR) will be presented., Up to approximately 30 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experience CR or PR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 30 months|Change from Baseline in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 will be presented. The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to Items 29 and 30 ("How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). A higher score indicates a better overall outcome., Baseline and Up to approximately 26 months|Change from Baseline in Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of function., Baseline and Up to approximately 26 months|Change from Baseline for Role Functioning (Items 6 and 7) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 6-7 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to 2 questions about their role functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of function., Baseline and up to approximately 26 months|Change from Baseline in Dyspnea Score (Item 8) on the EORTC QLQ-C30, Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Were you short of breath?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of dyspnea., Baseline and Up to approximately 26 months|Change from Baseline in Cough Score (Item 31) on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Lung Cancer-Specific Questionnaire Module (EORTC QLQ-LC13), Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Have you coughed?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates more frequent coughing., Baseline and Up to approximately 26 months|Change from Baseline in Chest Pain Score (Item 40) on the EORTC QLQ- LC13, Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Have you had pain in your chest?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of chest pain., Baseline and Up to approximately 26 months|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 will be presented. The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to Items 29 and 30 ("How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). A higher score indicates a better overall outcome. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Up to approximately 26 months|TTD in Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ- C30, TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of function. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Up to approximately 26 months|TTD in Role Functioning (Items 6 and 7) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 6-7 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to 2 questions about their role functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of function. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Up to approximately 26 months|TTD in Dyspnea Score (Item 8) on the EORTC QLQ-C30, TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Were you short of breath?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of dyspnea. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Up to approximately 26 months|TTD in Cough Score (Item 31) on the EORTC QLQ-LC13, TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Have you coughed?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates more frequent coughing. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Up to approximately 26 months|TTD in Chest Pain Score (Item 40) on the EORTC QLQ-LC13, TTD in the score of EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40 will be presented. The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant response to the question "Have you had pain in your chest?" is scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a worse level of chest pain. TTD is defined as the time to first onset of 10 or more (out of 100) deterioration from baseline and confirmed by a second adjacent 10 or more deterioration from baseline., Up to approximately 26 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced One or More Adverse Events (AEs), The number of participants who experienced an adverse event (AE) will be presented. An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered study treatment and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment., Up to approximately 53 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Intervention Due to an AE, The number of participants who discontinue study intervention due to an adverse event (AE) will be presented. An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered study treatment and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment., Up to approximately 53 months|Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrate a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. The DOR as assessed by blinded independent central review will be presented., Up to approximately 30 months
Effective as of Amendment 5, Participants receiving coformulation of pembrolizumab/vibostolimab plus chemotherapy will be transitioned to standard of care (SOC, pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy). Participants with access to approved standard of care (SOC) should be considered for discontinuation from the study. Those benefiting from pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy, but unable to access it as SOC outside the study, may continue on study and receive treatment with pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy until discontinuation criteria are met.