Long-term Use of Romidepsin in Patients With CTCL
Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) are a heterogeneous group of neoplasm of skin-homing T cells that includes Mycosis Fungoid (MF), which is the most common, Sézary syndrome (SS), the leukemia variant of MF, and other variants of CTCL which are less prevalent. Clinical manifestations and prognosis are highly variable. Improving the management of this incurable disease with limited toxicity is the main point of the current research. Romidepsin is a well-tolerated histone deacetylase inhibitor which has demonstrated activity against advanced stages of CTCL. In November 2009, it was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of CTCL in patients who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. FDA-dose approved is 14 mg/m2 days 1, 8, 15 of a 21 day-cycle. It is said that it should be continued as long as the patient receives benefit and tolerates the drug. We experienced in our clinic that a long-term (\>6 months) use of Romidepsin, even with spared doses allows patients to maintain disease in complete remission or under control without severe side effects. We aim to demonstrate how many patients have benefited of this maintenance therapy, and detect the side effects related to the long-term use of Romidepsin, as well as characterize those patients that can get benefit of this therapy.
Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Romidepsin
Free disease time with maintenance therapy with romidepsin, By the time patient received the first cycle the clinical response will be assessed, 4 weeks
This project is a retrospective and prospective chart review of patients who present at Northwestern Medical Faculty Foundation clinic with the diagnosis of CTCL. It includes Mycosis Fungoid, Sézary Syndrome and other subtypes of CTCL, like Cytotoxic Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas. Those patients that received or will be prescribed per standard of care with romidepsin for at least 1 month (or at least more than 1 cycle of treatment) will be reviewed. We estimate that 50 patients could fit the criteria above, since the drug started to be prescribed in the Dermatology Clinic. Clinical information regarding diagnosis, stage, prior treatment received, and therapeutic response will be recorded. Blood parameters such as cell blood count, calcium, magnesium, potassium, and albumin at baseline and after treatment with romidepsin will be reviewed, and recorded if abnormalities are detected. Electrocardiogram changes will also be checked and recorded. All the information will be gathered in an excel spreadsheet in order to perform a descriptive analysis. We aim to assess the use of romidepsin as maintenance therapy and assess which schedule of treatment was most frequently used and associated with a better response with fewer side effects.