The Role of Surgery of the Primary Tumour in Patients With Synchronous Unresectable Metastases of Colorectal Cancer
The clinical benefit of resection of the primary tumour in patients with synchronous unresectable metastases is not known. In the literature studies usually describe retrospective selected patients with synchronous metastases treated with or without resection of the primary tumour. All these studies are biased in patient selection and there are no prospective randomized studies on this topic. In patients with few or absent symptoms of the primary tumour, arguments both in favour and against initial resection have been presented, and therefore a randomized trial is warranted. Although recent publications suggest that resection of the primary tumour in synchronous metastasized colon cancer patients might not be necessary, this appears to be based on feasibility and not on clinical outcome. Several studies comparing large groups of patients with or without resection of the primary tumour suggest an improved survival when the primary tumour is resected. A potential benefit of resection of the primary tumour is to prevent complications of the primary tumour during chemotherapy treatment or during later stages of the disease. A recent analysis of the CAIRO and CAIRO2 data showed that metastatic colon cancer patients who had a resection of the primary tumour prior to study entry, had an improved survival compared to patients without a resection of the primary tumour. However, these patients were selected after the primary tumour was resected and therefore these results are not corrected for surgical morbidity and mortality. The investigators here propose a randomized trial in order to demonstrate that resection of the primary tumour does improve overall survival.
Colon Cancer|Primary Tumour|Rectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Surgery of the primary tumour|DRUG: Systemic treatment
Overall survival, Overall survival of the intent-to-treat population, Time from randomisation until death, assessed up to 5 years
Progression-free survival, Time from randomisation until first progression or death whichever comes first, asessed up to 5 years|Response to chemotherapy, Response rate according to RECIST 1.1, Fist-line chemotherapy, assessed until progression|Systemic therapy related toxicity, Adverse events grade 3-4 according to NCI-CTC 4.0, Every 3 weeks during first-line treatment|Surgery related morbidity and mortality, 30 days|Quality of life, EORTC QLQ-C30 and CR38, Every 6 months from randomisation until first progression|Interval between randomization and initiation of systemic treatment, Number of days between randomization and initiation of systemic treatment|Cost-benefit analyses, Until end of first-line systemic treatment|Patients requiring resection of the primary tumour in the non-resection arm, Number of patients requiring resection of the primary tumour in the non-resection arm, Time from randomisation until death, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival in patients in whom treatment according to protocol was initiated, Having received at least one cycle of systemic treatment in arm A and surgery in arm B, Time form randomisation until death, assessed up to 5 years
The clinical benefit of resection of the primary tumour in patients with synchronous unresectable metastases is not known. In the literature studies usually describe retrospective selected patients with synchronous metastases treated with or without resection of the primary tumour. All these studies are biased in patient selection and there are no prospective randomized studies on this topic. In patients with few or absent symptoms of the primary tumour, arguments both in favour and against initial resection have been presented, and therefore a randomized trial is warranted. Although recent publications suggest that resection of the primary tumour in synchronous metastasized colon cancer patients might not be necessary, this appears to be based on feasibility and not on clinical outcome. Several studies comparing large groups of patients with or without resection of the primary tumour suggest an improved survival when the primary tumour is resected. A potential benefit of resection of the primary tumour is to prevent complications of the primary tumour during chemotherapy treatment or during later stages of the disease. A recent analysis of the CAIRO and CAIRO2 data showed that metastatic colon cancer patients who had a resection of the primary tumour prior to study entry, had an improved survival compared to patients without a resection of the primary tumour. However, these patients were selected after the primary tumour was resected and therefore these results are not corrected for surgical morbidity and mortality. The investigators here propose a randomized trial in order to demonstrate that resection of the primary tumour does improve overall survival.