RWE of 1st Line Treatment in Adults With AML From 18 to 70 Years Old.
This is a multicenter, observational real world clinical trial with prospective follow up that will evaluate the treatment outcome of Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) patients in the first line with intensive chemotherapy based regimens in Argentina.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Adult
OTHER: Evaluation of first line treatment with intensive treatment outcome in adult patients with AML.
Evaluate the Overall Survival of patients diagnosed with primary or secondary AML between 18 and 70 years of age treated in first line with intensive chemotherapy regimens and risk-adapted consolidation., Evaluate overall survival of patients diagnosed with AML and treated in first line with intensive chemotherapy combined with different consolidation modalities depending on risk category, 36 months|Evaluate the Event Free Survival of patients diagnosed with primary or secondary AML between 18 and 70 years of age treated in first line with intensive chemotherapy regimens and risk-adapted consolidation., Evaluate the Event Free Survival of patients diagnosed with AML and treated in first line with intensive chemotherapy combined with different consolidation modalities depending on risk category., 36 months
Evaluate the Complete Remission Rate with negative measurable residual disease (MRD) determined by CMF at the end of induction treatment., 36 months|Evaluate the toxicity of the scheme measured by type, frequency, severity and relation to treatment of adverse events., 36 months|Evaluate treatment-related mortality (within 30 days of admission)., Within 30 days of admission|Evaluate the role of measurable residual disease (MRD) in terms of EFS prior to each consolidation., 36 months|Evaluate the role of allogeneic stem cell transplantation in terms of EFS in intermediate and adverse risk patients., 36 months
The purpose of this trial is to gather real world evidence of the characteristics of AML patients in Argentina who receive intensive chemotherapy based treatment in first line following our national guidelines. The study primary endpoint is to evaluate event free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients diagnosed with AML and treated in first line with intensive chemotherapy combined with different consolidation modalities depending on risk category. Secondary endpoints are to evaluate EFS and OS according to: cytogenetic and molecular classification, measurable residual disease (MRD) (by flow cytometry) post induction. Assess treatment-related mortality and limitations in completing treatment due to toxicity. Evaluate the role of allogeneic stem cell transplantation in terms of EFS in intermediate and adverse risk patients.

Every AML patient diagnosed in our institutions will follow our guidelines with respect to diagnosis procedures. Risk category will depend on molecular and cytogenetic features according to European Leukemia net 2017 risk stratification.

All patients will receive induction with 7+3 scheme; if CR is not met induction will be followed by a reinduction with FLAG-IDA. According to post induction remission status and risk assessment, consolidation will consist of three courses of cytarabine (2g/m2) + daunorubicin (60mg/m2) for low risk group; or consolidation with cytarabine (2g/m2) + daunorubicin (60mg/m2) followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation for intermediate and adverse risk groups.

Patients harboring Flt3 mutation will add midostaurin during induction and consolidations: midostaurin 50 mg orally every 12 hours on days 8-21 of each 28-day cycle.

In the cases of Coring Binding Factor AML and NPM1 mutated AML, molecular MRD assessment will be done at the end of consolidations by RQ-PCR and thereafter a follow-up RQ-PCR evaluation every 3 months during the first two years.