BETH Study: Treatment of HER2 Positive Breast Cancer With Chemotherapy Plus Trastuzumab vs Chemotherapy Plus Trastuzumab Plus Bevacizumab
The trial will determine the value of adding bevacizumab to chemotherapy plus trastuzumab in patients with resected node-positive or high risk node-negative, HER2-positive breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Invasive Disease-free Survival (IDFS), up to 10 years
Invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) within chemotherapy cohorts, up to 10 years|Disease-free survival (DFS), up to 10 years|Overall survival (OS), Time from randomization until death from any cause or up to a maximum of 10 years from study entry|Recurrence-free interval (RFI), Time from randomization until local, regional or distant recurrence or up to a maximum of 10 years from study entry|Distant recurrence-free interval (DRFI), Time from randomization until distant disease recurrence only or up to a maximum of 10 years from study entry|Cardiac toxicity. Cumulative incidence of severe cardiac events defined as definite or probable cardiac death, or NYHA Class III or IV CHF, 2-3 weeks after cycle 3; 2-3 weeks after last chemotherapy dose; 7, 10, 18, 36, and 60 months from randomization|Non-cardiac toxicity. Frequencies of adverse events categorized using the NCI CTCAE v3.0., within 3 days of each chemotherapy cycle; 2-3 weeks following last chemotherapy dose; every 6 weeks during targeted therapy; every 6 months through year 5; every 12 months years 6 - 10|Identification of biomarkers (from tumor and serum/plasma) predictive for the level of benefit from the addition of bevacizumab to standard adjuvant systemic treatment for HER2-positive breast cancer as well as for cardiac toxicity, baseline, during therapy and follow-up, within 2 weeks of LVEF assessments, any protocol-specified cardiac event, and after diagnosis of recurrence
This Phase III, randomized, open-label trial will determine whether the regimens of chemotherapy plus trastuzumab plus bevacizumab improve invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) relative to the regimens of chemotherapy plus trastuzumab. Secondary aims include determining whether the addition of bevacizumab to chemotherapy plus trastuzumab will improve disease-free survival (DFS), overall survival (OS), recurrence-free interval (RFI), and distant recurrence-free interval (DRFI). The benefit of adding bevacizumab for IDFS, DFS, OS, RFI, and DRFI will also be evaluated for each of the two chemotherapy regimens. The cardiac and non-cardiac toxicities of each of the regimens will also be evaluated.

Following local determination that the tumor is HER2-positive for gene amplification by in situ hybridization or is IHC 2+ or 3+, a tumor sample must be submitted for HER2 testing by a designated central laboratory. If central testing confirms that the tumor is HER2-positive (either positive by FISH or IHC 3+) and all other eligibility criteria have been met, the patient will be randomized to a regimen of chemotherapy and trastuzumab with or without bevacizumab.

Patients in the trial will be enrolled in one of two chemotherapy regimen cohorts. One cohort will receive 6 cycles of docetaxel/carboplatin plus trastuzumab (TCH) with or without bevacizumab; the other cohort will receive 3 cycles of docetaxel plus trastuzumab given with or without bevacizumab followed by 3 cycles of 5-Fluorouracil, Epirubicin, Cyclophosphamide (TH-FEC). With both regimens, patients will continue trastuzumab with or without bevacizumab following chemotherapy to complete 1 year of targeted therapy. Following completion of chemotherapy, patients will also receive adjuvant radiotherapy and endocrine therapy as clinically indicated.

The trial will be conducted by investigators affiliated with the Cancer International Research Group (CIRG) and the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP). CIRG and NSABP investigators will only enroll patients in the TCH regimen cohort. Additional investigators, referred to in the protocol as Independent Investigators, will enroll patients in both the TCH regimen or the TH-FEC regimen cohort depending on institutional preference for the one regimen that will be used by that institution for the duration of the trial.

Patients will be given the option of allowing their tumor samples to be used for the BETH translational research and correlative science studies. Also, patients will be asked to consent to the submission of blood and serum samples at scheduled time points during the study.

LVEF assessments will be performed before study entry and then at scheduled time points during therapy and at 18, 36, and 60 months following randomization.

The planned sample size for the trial is 3,000 patients randomized in the faster accruing cohort and a minimum of 3,500 patients overall.