Imaging and Blood-Based Biomarkers for the Evaluation of Early Signs of Myocardial Injury After Thoracic Radiation Therapy
This study assesses for early signs of damage to the heart following chest radiation therapy using both imaging (cardiac magnetic resonance imaging and cardiac positron emission tomography) and changes in blood biomarkers. This study determines if any changes in the heart muscle can be detected either during the course of radiation therapy or shortly thereafter using specialized imaging techniques or blood tests. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging may be used to help provide information about changes in the heart structure and function following radiation therapy. Positron emission tomography looks at differences in how the heart takes up radioactive sugar which is injected into the vein to assess changes in heart function following radiation therapy. This study may help identify patients at risk of heart issues following radiation therapy to the chest and ultimately help in the development of more effective and safe treatments for cancer in the future.
Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|GastroEsophageal Cancer|Esophagus Cancer
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the Heart|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Changes in extracellular volume (ECV), To identify the presence of cardiac fibrosis as assessed by cardiac magnetic resonance-derived ECV during and shortly after RT., Baseline up to 6 months post-radiation therapy (RT)|Changes in myocardial T2, To identify the presence of cardiac magnetic resonance-derived cardiac inflammation using T2 mapping during and shortly after RT., Baseline up to 6 months post-RT|Changes in myocardial metabolism, To identify changes in myocardial metabolism measured as standardized uptake value (SUV) max during and shortly after RT using myocardial PET., Baseline up to 6 months post-RT
Blood-based biomarkers, Biomarkers including serum troponin, N-terminal Pro Brain-type Natriuretic Peptide (NT-proBNP), C-reactive protein, carboxy-terminal propeptide of procollagen type I (PICP), and amino-terminal propeptide of procollagen type I (PINP) will be measured., Baseline up 6 to months post-RT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate and quantitate early changes in myocardial fibrosis following thoracic radiation therapy (RT).

II. To assess quantitative early changes in myocardial inflammation after thoracic RT.

III. To determine if thoracic RT is associated with early changes in myocardial metabolism as assessed with cardiac positron emission tomography (PET).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate and quantitate early changes in subclinical myocardial dysfunction after thoracic RT.

II. To determine if thoracic RT is associated with early changes in myocardial metabolism using alternative cardiac PET-derived biomarkers.

III. To evaluate and quantitate early changes in blood-based biomarkers after thoracic RT.

IV. To assess the incidence and severity of cardiac events following completion of thoracic RT.

OUTLINE:

Within 2 weeks of starting RT, patients undergo cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging, cardiac positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) and blood sample collection at baseline, then between fractions 12-17 of RT and at 6 months after completion of RT.