Pre-operAtive Non-Anthracycline Chemotherapy, Durvalumab +/- RAdiation Therapy in Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This phase II randomized trial is for patients with clinical stage II-III, ER and PR \<10%, HER2-negative invasive breast carcinoma (triple negative breast cancer) for whom adjuvant RT is planned and pre-operative RT is deemed feasible by the treating radiation oncologist. Subjects will be randomized into arm A or B and treatment will last for 16 weeks. Both groups will receive Durvalumab 750mg IV Q2 weeks x 2 then a biopsy prior to durvalumab 1500mg IV Q4 weeks x 3 with paclitaxel and carboplatin IV weekly x 12. Arm B will receive radiation (24 Gy total) starting with the second durvalumab dose every other day (8Gy per fraction) for one week. Following treatment, subjects will receive SOC breast surgery and continue on to physician's choices SOC treatment during the 3 year follow up period.

This study hopes to explore the impact of checkpoint blockade administration with a non- anthracycline chemotherapy regimen plus RT on post-surgery pathologic complete response (pCR) rate in the breast and axilla (ypT0/Tis ypN0) following 12 weeks of treatment and surgery.
Breast Cancer|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Pathological complete response rate in the breast and axilla, Proportion of subjects without residual invasive cancer in the breast and axilla from randomization to definitive surgery.

Measured as the lack of residual invasive cancer on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy at the time of definitive surgery., 20 weeks from randomization
Pathological complete invasive and in situ response rate (breast and axilla), Proportion of subjects without residual invasive and in situ cancer in the breast and axilla disease from randomization to definitive surgery.

- Residual invasive cancer and in situ disease defined based on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy by pathological assessment., 20 weeks from randomization|Proportion of subjects with pathological invasive complete response in the breast only, Proportion of subjects without residual invasive cancer in the breast from randomization to definitive surgery.

- Residual invasive breast cancer defined based on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast specimen following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy by pathological assessment., 20 weeks from randomization|Residual Cancer Burden (RCB), Proportion of subjects with RCB 0-I, II or III from randomization to definitive surgery.

-Residual Cancer Burden defined based on the RCB index, a component of four pathological parameters: bi-dimensional diameter of primary tumor bed, percent of cellularity in the tumor bed, number of involved lymph nodes and size of the largest nodal metastasis. The RCB possible scores are: RCB 0 (pCR), RCB I, RCB II, RCB III., 20 weeks from randomization|Event Free Survival, Mean difference in time (in months) from randomization to any of the following events progression of disease that precludes surgery, local or distant recurrence, or death due to any cause., 36 months from randomization|Invasive disease-free survival (IDFS), Mean difference in time (in months) from date of surgery (date of no disease) to the first documentation of invasive progressive disease or death., 33 months from surgery|Overall survival, Mean difference in time (in months) from randomization to death., 36 months from randomization|Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Incidence and severity of adverse events (AE) and serious adverse events (SAE) from cycle 1 day 1 until 30 days post-surgery.

-AEs and SAEs based on CTCAE 5.0, 24 weeks from treatment initiation|Frequency of adjuvant treatment after surgery, Average number of subjects receiving adjuvant treatment after surgery., 36 months from randomization
This phase II randomized trial is for patients with clinical stage II-III, ER and PR \<10%, HER2-negative invasive breast carcinoma (triple negative breast cancer) for whom adjuvant RT is planned and pre-operative RT is deemed feasible by the treating radiation oncologist. Subjects will be randomized into arm A or B and treatment will last for 16 weeks. Both groups will receive Durvalumab 750mg IV Q2 weeks x 2 then a biopsy prior to durvalumab 1500mg IV Q4 weeks x 3 with paclitaxel and carboplatin IV weekly x 12. Arm B will receive radiation (24 Gy total) starting with the second durvalumab dose every other day (8Gy per fraction) for one week. Following treatment, subjects will receive SOC breast surgery and continue on to physician's choices SOC treatment during the 3 year follow up period.

This study hopes to explore the impact of checkpoint blockade administration with a non- anthracycline chemotherapy regimen plus RT on post-surgery pathologic complete response (pCR) rate in the breast and axilla (ypT0/Tis ypN0) following 12 weeks of treatment and surgery.