Adjuvant Treatment Based on MRD for EGFR Mutant NSCLC
A prospective, multicenter clinical study designed to explore the efficacy of postoperative adjuvant EGFR-TKIs therapy based on MRD status in patients with stage IB-IIIB EGFR-mutant non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (non-squamous NSCLC). Primary endpoints include 3-year Disease-Free Survival rate (3y-DFS) and median disease-free survival (mDFS).
MRD
GENETIC: Adjuvant treatment for MRD positivity
Disease Free Survival, Disease free survival (DFS)- defined as the time from operation to the first documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first., From date of opeartion until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|3 yeas DFS rate, To compare 3y-DFS rates between the two arms, From date of opeartion until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months
Overall survival, To evaluate the overall survival of both arms, OS is defined as the time from opeartion to death, regardless of disease recurrence, assessed up to 100 months
All subjects enrolled in this clinical trial will receive peripheral blood MRD status assessment within 1 week and 1 month after surgery, and will be divided into MRD positive group (+) and MRD negative group (-) according to their results , followed by MRD status assessment every 12 weeks.

The MRD positive group would receive icotinib as adjuvant treatment. When the peripheral blood MRD turned negative, the subjects entered the drug withdrawal observation period. When the MRD turned positive again, the subjects resumed icotinib treatment. If EGFR T790M mutation was found, researchers would resume medication and choose osimertinib therapy.

The MRD negative group (-) directly entered the follow-up observation period. When the MRD status of peripheral blood turned positive, the subjects received osimertinib treatment. When the MRD turned negative again, the subjects entered the drug withdrawal observation period.