Bepanthen Versus Cetomacrogol in Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitors (EGFRI)
Objective:

To assess the preemptive effect of Bepanthen® on decreasing the incidence of specific ≥ grade 2 dermatological side effects of interest in respect of compliance to EGFRI agents, HRQoL and the adherence during the 6-week skin treatment period. The adherence to the study creams will also be studied.
Cancer|Skin Rash
OTHER: dexpanthenol 5% cream|OTHER: Cetomacrogol cream
grade 2 or more papulopustular eruption, The incidence of grade ≥ 2 papulopustular eruption during the 6 week skin treatment within Bepanthen and Cetomacrogol, as measured by the CTCAE v4.0 and DERETT-H, an dermatologic specific healthcare provider questionnaire for Dermatological Reactions Targeted Therapy., 6 weeks|impact of papulopustular eruptions on HRQoL, Assess the impact of papulopustular eruptions on HRQoL as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Questionnaire - EGFRI (FACT-EGFRI) and newly developed symptom experience diary Dermatological Reactions Targeted Therapy - Patients (DERETT-P)., 6 weeks
patient tolerability and satisfaction of study cream, Determine the patient tolerability and satisfaction of Bepanthen®/ Cetomacrogol cream as measured by DERETT-P., 6 weeks|effectiveness of study cream on the adherence, Determine the effectiveness of Bepanthen® cream versus Cetomacrogol cream on the adherence to anticancer agents as measured by FACT-EGFRI and DERETT-P., 6 weeks|other dermatological side effects, Assessments during the 6-week skin treatment period of the incidence and time to onset of other dermatological side effects which can appear together with papulopustular eruptions as measured by DERETT-H., 6 weeks
Rationale:

Dermatological side effects, such as papulopustular eruption, xerosis, pruritus, periungual inflammation, mucosal-, and hair abnormalities, and edema occur in up to 90% of patients during treatment with epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors (EGFRI). Patients are hindered in their daily activities and cannot maintain privacy about their illness because of the prominent side effects. The aesthetic discomfort, which is frequently associated with itching or painful skin or nails can lead to a decreased health related quality of life (HRQoL) and to dose reduction or discontinuation of anticancer treatment.

Patients with dermatological side effects have also an increased risk for cutaneous infections (at least 38%) which can complicate dermatological side effects.

At present, evidence of the effectiveness of the management options for dermatological side effects is lacking, and the effect of the dermatological side effects on HRQoL and adherence remains poorly understood.

Dexpanthenol cream (Bepanthen®, Bayer) has been used extensively to ameliorate acute radiation induced skin toxicity, diaper dermatitis, irritant hand dermatitis, graft-donor site wound healing and burn patients. The hypothesis is that its skin healing possibilities decreases this kind of side effects.

Study design:

Multicenter, two-arm randomized, double blind, prospective parallel group design, phase III study

Study population:

Each patient starting for the first time with EGFRI anticancer therapy which can cause papulopustular eruption (cetuximab, panitumumab, erlotinib, gefitinib, lapatinib, or other), will be included.

Intervention:

80 patients will receive for the first 6 weeks of treatment Bepanthen cream, 80 patients Cetomacrogol cream to apply twice daily. Using FACT-EGFRI, a dermatology-specific questionnaire, this study examines the effect of these side effects on three domains of HRQoL - symptoms, emotions, and functioning. Severity of dermatological side effects will be assessed using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0. Correlation of dermatology HRQoL scores with NCI-CTCAE grade, sex, age, type of EGFRI, and cancer type will be conducted.