Study in Women With Advanced Breast Cancer Receiving Palbociclib With AI or Fulvestrant
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and quality of life in women with advanced breast cancer (locally advance inoperable or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast), HR+ / HER2-, who are treated with an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant as baseline therapy in combination with palbociclib (Ibrance)
Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Positive Tumor|Human Epidermal Growth Factor 2 Negative Carcinoma of Breast
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) according to RECIST 1.1., 24 weeks after first administration of Palbociclib in combination with AI / fulvestrant
Number of participants with Adverse Events as assessed by CTCAE V4.0, Adverse Events as characterized by type, frequency, severity (as graded by National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] v.4.03), and seriousness, From Date of Signed informed consent until PD, assessed up to 60 months.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) according to RECIST 1.1., 48 weeks after first administration of Palbociclib in combination with AI / fulvestrant|Progression-free Survival rate, Follow up 4 years after LPI, At 48 weeks (all patients) and 2 years (first-line patients only) after first administration of Palbociclib in combination with AI / fulvestrant|Overall Survival rate, Follow up 4 years after LPI, At 48 weeks after first administration of Palbociclib in combination with AI / fulvestrant and yearly until EOS, assessed up to 60 months.|Time on treatment, Study treatment will be continued until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, death or any other reason., From day of first treatment until permanent discontinuation (EOT), assessed up to 60 months.|Dosage, * starting dose (mg)
* adjusted doses (mg), From day of first treatment until EOT, assessed up to 60 months.|Adminstration schedule, - dates of administration, From day of first treatment until EOT, assessed up to 60 months.|Health-related quality of life (QoL), Health-related QoL will be assessed with the FACT-B (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast) questionnaire, From date of signed informed consent until disease progression or start of next anti-cancer therapy: every 12 weeks, assessed up to 60 months.|Health-related fatigue, Fatigue will be assessed with the BFI (Brief Fatigue Inventory) questionnaire, From date of signed informed consent until disease progression or start of next anti-cancer therapy: every 12 weeks, assessed up to 60 months.|Health-related anxiety and depression, Depression and anxiety will be assessed with the HADS-D (Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale) questionnaire, From date of signed informed consent until disease progression or start of next anti-cancer therapy: every 12 weeks, assessed up to 60 months.|Physician's assessment of patient's overall health status and change in health status compared to previous visit, Assessed by 2 items at each cycle/at scheduled patient visit, From Screening until disease progression or start of next anti-cancer therapy, assessed up to 60 months.
This is a prospective, open-label, multi-center, single arm, non-comparative phase II study in women with HR+/HER2- advanced breast cancer receiving palbociclib in addition to an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant. The study will take place in Germany (85 study centers).

In total, 360 patients will be enrolled in this study. 6 treatment groups are planned. The study seeks to recruit 60 (58-62) patients per recruitment group. For first-line treatment with palbociclib - and letrozole (Enrollment Group 1), anastrozole (Enrollment Group 2), exemestane (Enrollment Group 3) or fulvestrant (Enrollment Group 4) and 60 (58-62) patients for second- or later-line treatment with palbociclib -and letrozole (Enrollment Group 5) or fulvestrant (Enrollment Group 6). Recruitment will be centrally monitored to allow closure of a respective group as soon as 60 (58-62) patients have been enrolled.

Treatment will be continued until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, death or any other reason. In case a combination partner is discontinued, palbociclib has to be discontinued. In case treatment with palbociclib is stopped, combination partner can be continued according to investigator's discretion. Irrespectively of the combination partner, the discontinuation of palbociclib is defined as end of treatment (EOT) in this study. After EOT the patient enters the follow-up period.

Primary end point is clinical benefit rate 24 weeks after the first study treatment of the patient.

A study independent, decentral, "virtual" biobank will be established. All patients will be asked to give consent for their tumor samples to be used for future investigational research. Study sites will inform the local pathologists about the patient's consent and ask for the tissue sample to be reserved for future analyses. The site is requested to collect contact details of the pathologist storing the tumor sample, the sample's identification number(s), and to document these in the eCRF.

The decision to perform subsequent investigational research studies on collected samples will be based on outcome data from this study or from new scientific findings related to the drug class or disease, as well as reagent and assay availability.