Post Sustained Virological Response (SVR) Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) Screening
Approximately half of the patients receiving treatment for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in the United States have advanced liver disease. Patients with advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis who achieve a sustained virological response (SVR) to treatment and are clinically cured of HCV continue to have an elevated risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). According to guidelines from several professional societies and from the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD), in particular, patients with advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis should undergo life-long bi-annual screening for incident HCC whether they achieve an SVR, or not. The number of patients who need post-SVR HCC screening has risen dramatically in recent years due to the confluence of three factors: Increased screening for HCV, which has allowed more people to realize that they have this often "silent" infection; the availability of safe and highly effective direct acting antiviral drugs (DAAs) for HCV, which has allowed a much higher percentage of treated patients to achieve an SVR; and the long duration of HCV infection in many patients, which has allowed enough time for advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis to develop. To investigate post-SVR patients in the era of DAAs and to promote HCC screening, the objective of this study is to conduct a randomized, unblinded, two-arm prospective intervention trial comparing rates of HCC screening between patients randomized to either personalized patient navigation or automated reminders (e.g. electronic or mailed). Both interventions represent improved care over current standard of care (no patient navigation or automated reminders). There is no evidence to suggest one intervention is better than the other. Healthcare providers who agree to participate in the study will be contacted to confirm the liver disease status of their patients and during the clinical trial the providers of patients in both arms of the trial will be sent reminders about the need to schedule patients for screening visits.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|HCC|Hepatitis C|HCV
BEHAVIORAL: Automated reminders|BEHAVIORAL: Patient navigation
HCC screening rates, Ratio of Number of on-time screening visits to number of missed screening visits, every 6 months until death - average of 5 years
Adherence to HCC Surveillance, Percentage for patients completing timely screening visit, every 6 months until death - average of 5 years|Rates of HCC, New incidences of HCC, every 6 months until death - average of 5 years|Incidence of Death, Incidence of death, every 6 months until death - average of 5 years|Incidence of liver transplant, every 6 months until death - average of 5 years
Approximately half of the patients receiving treatment for chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in the United States have advanced liver disease. Patients with advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis who achieve a sustained virological response (SVR) to treatment and are clinically cured of HCV continue to have an elevated risk of developing hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). According to guidelines from several professional societies and from the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD), in particular, patients with advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis should undergo life-long bi-annual screening for incident HCC whether they achieve an SVR, or not. The number of patients who need post-SVR HCC screening has risen dramatically in recent years due to the confluence of three factors: Increased screening for HCV, which has allowed more people to realize that they have this often "silent" infection; the availability of safe and highly effective direct acting antiviral drugs (DAAs) for HCV, which has allowed a much higher percentage of treated patients to achieve an SVR; and the long duration of HCV infection in many patients, which has allowed enough time for advanced fibrosis/cirrhosis to develop. To investigate post-SVR patients in the era of DAAs and to promote HCC screening, the objective of this study is to conduct a randomized, unblinded, two-arm prospective intervention trial comparing rates of HCC screening between patients randomized to either personalized patient navigation or automated reminders (e.g. electronic or mailed). Both interventions represent improved care over current standard of care (no patient navigation or automated reminders). There is no evidence to suggest one intervention is better than the other. Healthcare providers who agree to participate in the study will be contacted to confirm the liver disease status of their patients and during the clinical trial the providers of patients in both arms of the trial will be sent reminders about the need to schedule patients for screening visits.