Tumour and HEalthy Tissues DOse-response and Radiosensitivity Assay
THEODORA is a prospective pilot clinical trial aiming at first to evaluate and validate the predictive value of the A \& MS bioassays on tumor control by radiotherapy.
Sarcoma|Rectal Carcinoma|Esophagus Cancer
RADIATION: Standard treatment
Calibration of the correlation between the clinical tumor response and the results of A/MS bioassays using tumor samples, The calibration stage will be performed using data from the first 40 patients enrolled. All the potential correlations between the clinical and radiobiological parameters will be tested. The links between clinical tumor response parameters and radiobiological parameters derived from MS/A bioassays using tumor samples., 2.5 years (after 100 patients enrolled )|Validation of the correlation between the clinical tumor response and the results of A/MS bioassays using tumor samples, The validation stage will be performed using data from the remaining 60 patients enrolled. This stage will assess whether or not the prediction of tumor response derived from the A/MS bioassays fits with the observed tumor response after RT., 2.5 years (after 100 patients enrolled )
Validation of the correlation between the healthy tissue response (i.e. AE reported as per CTCAE v4) and the results of MS/A bioassays using skin biopsies, 2.5 years (after 100 patients enrolled )
For that purpose, this project is composed of 3 stages:

* A Calibration stage that will allow to evaluate the correlation between the clinical tumor response parameters (i.e. TV/AP features) and the radiobiological parameters issued from the A/MS bioassays in order to develop a mathematic model defining the UTCR parameter
* A Validation stage in order to assess the validity of A/MS bioassays towards clinical tumour response parameters (i.e. both TV/AP features and UTCR).
* A Precision stage will be performed either to improve the precision of the predictive performance of the A and MS bioassays or to establish a new mathematical model describing the correlation between clinical and radiobiological parameters. The objective of this precision stage will depend of the results of the calibration stage (see below).

This prospective clinical study will be conducted in a population of patients with different tumor types in order to explore a large range of tumor radiosensitivity including sarcomas, rectal carcinoma and esophagus tumor.