Construction of a Prognostic and Prediction Model for Perioperative Immunotherapy in NSCLC: a Multi - Omics Perspective
This research focuses on exploring biomarkers for the application of PD - 1/PD - L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors in the perioperative immunotherapy of lung cancer. Multi - index tests are conducted on tissues prior to treatment, as well as blood samples at baseline and during the treatment course. The goal is to identify biomarkers capable of predicting the efficacy of neoadjuvant and adjuvant immunotherapies. Additionally, by integrating these multiple - index data into models, patients are to be stratified based on their potential benefits from perioperative immunotherapy, providing personalized guidance for clinical decision - making.
NSCLC Stage IIIA/B|NSCLC Stage II
Pathological response after immune neoadjuvant therapy, The primary evaluation indicators are pathological complete response (pCR) and major pathological response (MPR). MPR refers to the residual tumor cells in the surgically resected specimens being ≤ 10%, while pCR requires the complete disappearance of tumor cells., From enrollment to surgery at 18 weeks
2-year Progression-Free Survival(PFS1), Mainly evaluate the PFS of patients from the time of enrollment until two years later., PFS of patients from the time of enrollment until two years|2-year Progression-Free Survival(PFS2), Mainly evaluate the patient's PFS from the start of adjuvant immunotherapy to 2 years., PFS from the start of adjuvant immunotherapy to 2 years.
This research focuses on exploring biomarkers for the application of PD - 1/PD - L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors in the perioperative immunotherapy of lung cancer. Multi - index tests are conducted on tissues prior to treatment, as well as blood samples at baseline and during the treatment course. The goal is to identify biomarkers capable of predicting the efficacy of neoadjuvant and adjuvant immunotherapies. Additionally, by integrating these multiple - index data into models, patients are to be stratified based on their potential benefits from perioperative immunotherapy, providing personalized guidance for clinical decision - making.