Measurement and Analysis of Gas Composition in Digestive Tract
The purpose of this study is to detect the concentration of various gases，including hydrogen, methane, hydrogen sulfide, nitric oxide in different parts of the digestive tract by a safe and direct method, and to establish a human digestive tract gas profiles. Analyze the differences in gas components in different segments of the digestive tract in patients with different diseases, and analyze the correlation between specific gases and digestive tract diseases and non-specific symptoms.
Inflammatory Bowel Diseases|Irritable Bowel Syndrome|Functional Dyspepsia|Colorectal Neoplasms|Helicobacter Pylori Infection
OTHER: gas component of digestive tract
Concentrations of different gas in digestive tract, Concentrations of H2, CH4, NO and H2S in various parts of digestive tract, immediately after the procedure
Correlation between digestive tract and breath test, Correlation between concentration levels of H2, CH4, NO and H2S in various parts of digestive tract and breath test, Immediately after the procedure|Differences in concentrations of H2, CH4, NO, and H2S in the digestive tract between patients with different gastrointestinal diseases and normal individuals., The diagnosis of imflammtory bowel disease, irritable bowel syndrome, colorectal neoplasms, helicobacter pylori infection and functional dyspepia refer to Chinese guidelines or expert consensus. The gas sample will be taken through the biopsy port during endoscopy. The concentration of H2, CH4, NO and H2S will be assessed by chemical gas sensor. The measured concentration of H2 and CH4 is one part per million(ppm). For NO and H2S, the measured concentration is one part per billion (ppb). For different disease groups, the difference between the control groups and the disease group will be analyzed with Student's t test or Mann-Whitney U test., Immediately after the procedure|The correlation between the severity of gastrointestinal symptoms and gas concentrations in various parts of the digestive tract., The symptoms will be assessed by Gastrointestinal Symptom-Rating Scale (GSRS) scores. The gas sample will be taken through the biopsy port during endoscopy. The concentration of H2, CH4, NO and H2S will be assessed by chemical gas sensor. The measured concentration of H2 and CH4 is one part per million(ppm). For NO and H2S, the measured concentration is one part per billion (ppb). The Spearman correlation will be used to determine the correlation between the severity of gastrointestinal symptoms and different gas concentration., Immediately after the procedure
The purpose of this study is to detect the concentration of various gases，including hydrogen, methane, hydrogen sulfide, nitric oxide in different parts of the digestive tract by a safe and direct method, and to establish a human digestive tract gas profiles. Analyze the differences in gas components in different segments of the digestive tract in patients with different diseases, and analyze the correlation between specific gases and digestive tract diseases and non-specific symptoms.