Dasatinib, Paclitaxel, and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV or Recurrent Endometrial Cancer
This pilot phase I trial studies how well dasatinib works together with paclitaxel and carboplatin in treating patients with stage III, stage IV, or endometrial cancer that has come back after a period of improvement. Dasatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving dasatinib together with paclitaxel and carboplatin may kill more tumor cells.
Endometrial Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Endometrial Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Endometrial Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Carcinoma|Stage III Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Dasatinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Change in pMEK expression, Change in pMEK expression will be evaluated., Up to 1 year|Change in EphA2 expression, Summary statistics and box plots will be used to describe the distributions of expression of EphA2 and its downstream signaling effectors., From baseline to up to day 14
Response rate (complete [CR] or partial response [PR]) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, Best overall response will be tabulated. The proportion of patients with CR and with (CR+PR) will be estimated with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year|Progression free survival, Estimated with the product-limit estimator of Kaplan and Meier and illustrated with Kaplan-Meier plots., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival, Estimated with the product-limit estimator of Kaplan and Meier and illustrated with Kaplan-Meier plots., From start of treatment to time of death, assessed up to 1 year|Numbers of circulating tumor cells (CTCs), Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the number of CTCs for patients with each type of response. Estimate the mean number of CTCs for each of these groups with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year|Incidence of adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4, Tabulated by grade and relationship to study drug, stratified by whether or not patients had prior pelvic radiation., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate pMEK and EphA2 signaling effectors in pre- and post- treatment biopsy tissues from patients with advanced staged measurable primary or recurrent endometrial cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4 (CTCAE v. 4) of dasatinib administered in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin in patients with advanced staged measurable primary or recurrent endometrial cancer.

II. To record the objective response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v.1.1.

III. To describe the progression-free survival and overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the relationship of micro ribonucleic acid (RNA) 520d-3p (miR520d-3p) and EphA2 in pretreatment biopsies.

II. To evaluate downstream EphA2 signaling effectors, such as CAV-1, pAKT, FAK, paxillin, and p130cas in pre- and post-tissue treatment biopsies.

III. To explore the effect of dasatinib on the expression of other Eph family members such as EphB2 and EphB4.

IV. To quantify circulating tumor cells (CTCs) before and during the individual treatment phases.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive induction therapy comprising dasatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 14 days. \*Beginning 7 days later, patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV on day 1, and dasatinib PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \* Patients who have had prior external-beam pelvic or extended-field pelvic/para-aortic radiation therapy must receive treatment at a reduced dose.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.