Donor-Derived Humoral Immunity, Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, TAR
This research study is for subjects that are receiving a bone marrow transplant. As part of the transplant subjects will receive stem cells from a donor who has agreed to donate stem cells for them. Unfortunately, it takes a long time for the immune system to recover after a bone marrow transplant. This makes it more likely for patients to develop serious infections.

This study is being done to better understand how the immune system will recover after transplant. The immune system includes the cells that help fight infection. This study will help investigators understand which patients are at risk for developing infections after transplant.

All children and adults receive standard vaccines (shots) during their lifetime to provide protection from many different infections. One such infection is tetanus, a bacteria that can cause life-threatening problems. After transplant patients no longer have protection from infections such as tetanus. Therefore, most patients need to receive all their vaccine (shots) again after transplant. This is usually done 1-2 years after transplant, since it may take that long for patients to have a normal immune system.

However, the investigators believe that the time it will take for the patient to develop normal protection against tetanus can be shortened if both the patient and the patient's stem cell donor receive a tetanus vaccine.

The goal of this study is to determine if giving a tetanus vaccine to the donor and the patient will provide the patient with enough protection (immunity) to prevent infection following bone marrow transplant.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myelogenous Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Tetanus
Antibody Recall Response Rate, The proportion of participants with antibody recall response along with 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., 4 months
Change in Immunoglobulin Levels, Changes from baseline to several time points during follow-up will be calculated., up to 12 months
To participate in this study, patients will need to have given informed consent to have a bone marrow transplant. Before receiving the tetanus vaccine, we would like to test the patient's immune system against tetanus. We will again want to test the patient's immune system against tetanus on the day the patient receives the bone marrow transplant. Approximately 3 months after transplant, if the patient is still eligible, they will receive an additional tetanus booster shot. We will again draw blood to test their immune system against tetanus at the time points listed below.

TREATMENT PLAN:

If the subject meets eligibility requirements and consents to be part of this study, we will collect 8 mL (1.7 teaspoons) of blood from the subject to test their immunity 7 to 10 days before their bone marrow transplant. The subject will receive a tetanus vaccine (given as an injection into the upper arm or thigh muscle) on that same day. We will then collect approximately the same amount of blood (2 teaspoons) on the day the patient would receive the bone marrow transplant. We will also collect the same amount of blood 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks and 3 months, 6 months and 12 months after the transplant. This will help us to see how the patients immune system responded to the vaccine.

Three months after the transplant, the patient will receive an additional tetanus vaccine (known as a booster shot), but only if the patient is still eligible to receive it. Patient's will only be eligible to receive the booster shot if they remain well and do not have any other problems such as severe infection, graft versus host disease or relapse. We will collect 8 ml (1.7 teaspoons) of blood 1 week, 2 weeks and 4 weeks after receiving the booster shot to determine if they respond to the vaccine.