A Study of Vismodegib With Surgery in Participants With Previously Untreated Basal Cell Carcinoma
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study will assess the efficacy and safety of vismodegib with surgery in participants with basal cell carcinoma.
Basal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Vismodegib
Percent Change in Target Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) Expected Surgical Defect Area at Mohs Micrographic Surgery (MMS) Visit, The percent change in target BCC expected surgical defect area was defined as (\[baseline expected surgical defect area - expected surgical defect area at MMS visit\]/ baseline expected surgical defect area) × 100 percent (%) where expected surgical defect area was manually outlined on a digital photograph and measured by a computer (computer aided planimetry). MMS visit was defined as the visit that occurred within 2 weeks of the last study treatment., Baseline, MMS visit (Week 12-14)
Actual Change in Target BCC Expected Surgical Defect Area at MMS Visit, Actual change was defined as (baseline expected surgical defect area - expected surgical defect area at MMS visit). MMS visit was defined as the visit that occurred within 2 weeks of the last study treatment. Expected surgical defect area was manually outlined on a digital photograph and measured by a computer (computer aided planimetry)., Baseline, MSS Visit (Week 12-14)|Percentage Change in Target BCC Actual Tumor-Free Margin Excision Area at MMS Visit, Percent change in target BCC actual tumor-free margin excision area was defined as = (expected surgical defect area pre-treatment - actual tumor-free margin excision area at MMS visit) / expected surgical defect area pre-treatment) \* 100%. The actual tumor-free margin excision area (includes 2 millimeters \[mm\] margin) was measured during MMS. The area was photographed and traced on the digital photograph then calculated by computer-aided planimetry. MMS visit was defined as the visit that occurred within 2 weeks of the last study treatment., Baseline, MMS visit (Week 12-14)|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Response, Clinical response was defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at the post-treatment MMS excision. CR was defined as no histological evidence of BCC. PR was defined as a reduction of at least 50 % in the expected surgical defect area with histologic evidence of residual BCC. MMS visit was defined the visit that occurred within 2 weeks of the last study treatment., MMS visit (Week 12-14)|Percentage of Participants With Skip Area, Skip area was defined as the presence of non-contiguous residual tumor at the MMS visit, as determined by an independent dermatopathologist. MMS visit occurred within 2 weeks of the last study treatment., MMS visit (Week 12-14)|Percentage of Participants With BCC Recurrence, Baseline, 12, 24, and 52 weeks post MMS Visit (MMS Visit = Week 12-14)
This randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study will assess the efficacy and safety of vismodegib with surgery in participants with basal cell carcinoma.