Sintilimab Plus NCT or NCRT Versus NCRT for ESCC
Comparative analysis of patients with resectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy or neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy combined sintilimab versus neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Sintilimab|RADIATION: radiotherapy|DRUG: Chemotherapy
Pathology complete response rate, pCR, Definition of pathology complete response is "no cancer cell, including lympho nodes" which corresponds with tumor regression score 0 definition of pathologic response is as follows. Tumor regression score Grade 0 and 1 will be defined as "responder" and 2 and 3 will be considered as "non-responders"., 3 months after the surgery
Treatment related adverse event, TRAE, The TRAE defined as the proportion of participants who have treatment-related adverse events assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event, Version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0)., 3 months after the surgery|Major Pathological Remission rate, MPR, The residual tumor after neoadjuvant treatment ≤ 10% residual tumor lesion in surgical specimen compared to baseline., 3 months after the surgery|Rate of R0 resection, Measure the rate of R0 resection with all margins microscopically clear., 3 months after the surgery|Events Free Survival, EFS, Event-free survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented non-fatal event (worsening cardiac function, hospitalization for congestive heart failure, liver function impairment, liver cirrhosis, transformation to AML, as defined in the protocol), or death, whichever occurred first. Participants who did not experience a non-fatal event as of the time of data cut-off (end of study), as well as participants who did not experience a non-fatal event and stopped study participation before the data cut-off, were censored as specified in the protocol., Through study completion, an average of 1 year.|Overall Survival,OS, Overall survival was the duration from the start of study treatment to death., 5 years after inclusion|disease-free survival, DFS, DFS is defined as the time interval between the date of random assignment and the date of the first documented evidence of relapse at any site or death related to cancer (including toxicity), whichever occurred first., 5 years after inclusion|Disease Control Rate, DCR, he Disease Control Rate (DCR) will be defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of CR, PR or Stable Disease (SD) (RECIST V1.1) 2 months after randomization, 3 years after inclusion|Objective Response Rate, ORR, The Objective Response Rate (ORR) will be defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (RECIST V1.1), 3 years after inclusion|Circulating tumor DNA, ctDNA, Blood will be drawn and tested for ctDNA, Before neoadjuvant therapy, before surgery, 1, 6, 12, 18, 24 months after surgery
The research process is divided into three stages: firstly, the stage of screening period for 14 days. Qualified subjects will enter the treatment period after completion of screening examination and evaluation. And then, the stage of treatment period: Experimental group (group A) received sintilimab combined with neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen: preoperative neoadjuvant, sintilimab (D1 administration) combined with chemotherapy (TP regimen: albumin-paclitaxel + carboplatin, D1 administration) for 2 cycles. Every 3 weeks, there was a dosing cycle (Q3W). The experimental group (group B) received neoadjuvant sintilimab combined concurrent chemoradiotherapy: preoperative sintilimab (D1 administration) combined with neoadjuvant concurrent chemoradiotherapy. Chemotherapy regimen: TP regimen: albumin-paclitaxel + carboplatin, D1 administration, 2 cycles. Every 3 weeks, there was a dosing cycle (Q3W). Radiotherapy regimen: according to IMRT treatment plan, the total dose was 41.4Gy, divided into 23 times, 5 days a week. And the control group (group C) received neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and the regimen was similar with group B. Surgery was performed 6-8 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant therapy. If the patient without vital tumor cells in primary and lymph nodes after surgery, they only need regular follow-up visit. If the patients with non-pCR resected, those patients need to receive adjuvant immunotherapy. And if the patients with non-R0 resected, the regimen of those patients need to carefully decide based on multidisciplinary team discussed. Lastly, the stage of postoperative assistance, the researchers selected postoperative treatment according to the guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of esophageal cancer. Patients were followed up for efficacy and safety within 90 days after surgery, once every 3 months for 2 years and once every 6 months for 2-5 years.