Irinotecan and Carboplatin as First-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: The general results of combining irinotecan and platin-based chemotherapies have been very encouraging. As the toxicity profile associated with carboplatin is preferable over cisplatin it is our expectation that patients and physicians would prefer to use this combination if it is equally or more efficacious. To date there has been no agreement regarding the optimal combination of these agents. Based on the trials described in the protocol and our experience with carboplatin/irinotecan in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer the present trial will utilize a 21-day cycle of irinotecan 50 mg/m2 given on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin AUC 5 (based on the Calvert formula) on day 1.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving irinotecan together with carboplatin works as first-line therapy in treating patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride
Patient Response, Patient response to treatment:

Progressive disease (PD): \>=20% increase in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesion(s), taking as reference smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started Complete response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions Partial response (PR): \>=30% decrease in sum of LD of target lesion(s), taking as reference baseline sum LD Stable disease (SD): neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify as PR nor sufficient increase to qualify as PD, 1.66 months (average duration, on treatment date to best response date)
Number of Patients With Adverse Events, Number of participants with adverse events, according to grade of event, using the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (version 2.0) grading system to assign a grade to each event, date off treatment or progression of disease, up to 18 weeks|Time to Progression, Time to progression in months, 9.9 months (on study date to progression)|Overall Survival, On study date to death
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To examine the anti-tumor efficacy of the combination of Irinotecan (CPT-11) and Carboplatin as first-line therapy as assessed by response rate in patients with chemo-naïve extensive stage small cell lung cancer.

Secondary

* Determine the safety, tolerability, and feasibility of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the time to progression in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label study.

Patients receive irinotecan IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 54 patients will be accrued for this study.