Vaccine Therapy Plus Pembrolizumab in Treating Advanced Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
This phase I/II trial tests the safety, side effects, best dose, and effectiveness of multi-epitope folate receptor alpha-loaded dendritic cell vaccine (FRalphaDC) with pembrolizumab in treating patients with ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer (collectively known as ovarian cancer) that that has come back (after a period of improvement) (recurrent). Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecologic malignancy in the United States. While the majority of patients achieve a remission from ovarian cancer with the combination of aggressive cytoreductive surgery and cytotoxic chemotherapy, over 80% of patients develop recurrence within 3 years of completion of treatment. Additional treatments are needed for recurrence, but the standard treatment modalities are non-curative in nature due to the development of drug resistance. As such, there is a great unmet need for treatment strategies that utilize new mechanisms to which drug resistance does not develop. FRalphaDC is a dendritic cell vaccine that is made from the white blood cells collected from a procedure call apheresis. The white blood cells are treated to make dendritic cells, which will then be incubated with peptides, which are pieces of a protein known as "folate receptor alpha" (FRalpha), a protein that is found in high levels on ovarian cancer cells. Dendritic cell vaccines work by boosting the immune system (a system in the body that protect against infection) to recognize and destroy the tumor cells by targeting the FRalpha protein. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving FRalphaDC vaccine with pembrolizumab may be a safe and effective treatment for recurrent ovarian cancer.
Fallopian Tube Carcinosarcoma|Primary Peritoneal Carcinosarcoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinosarcoma|Recurrent Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinosarcoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Multi-epitope Folate Receptor Alpha-loaded Dendritic Cell Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Pheresis
Determine whether the combination of FRαDCs and pembrolizumab has an acceptable toxicity profile., Three patients will be enrolled to starting dose (dose level 1) and enrollment will pause until each of the first 3 patients have completed cycle 1 of therapy. If zero or one of first 3 patients develops a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during cycle 1, 3 more patients will be enrolled to dose level 1. If observe at most 1 DLT in the first 6 patients at dose level 1, it will be considered safe and will continue in phase II of trial. If 2 or more of the first 6 patients develop a DLT during cycle 1 for dose level 1, then enrollment will stop and dose level will be decreased. Additional patients will be enrolled in cohorts of 3 to that decreased dose level. If zero or one DLT in the first 6 patients at dose level -1, it will be considered safe and will continue in phase II of trial. Otherwise, if observe 2 or more DLTs in the first 6 patients of dose level -1, enrollment will stop until the Study Team adjusts the treatment plan with input from the Data Safety Monitoring Board., Up to 21 days|Confirm objective response rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). If at least 7 confirmed responses are observed in the first 32 eligible patients (22%), the combination treatment will be considered worthy of further investigation., Up to 5 years
Duration of response, Duration of response (DoR) is defined as the time from the first disease assessment showing a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) until the date of either disease progression or death of any cause., Up to 5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The date of progression will be the date on which progressive disease is first detected, even if the patient does not immediately come off study., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. OS is defined as the time from study entry to death from any cause., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be summarized using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab has an acceptable toxicity profile in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer (OC). (Phase I) II. To measure the confirmed objective response rate (ORR) to the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab in patients with recurrent OC. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the disease control rate (DCR-percentage of patients achieving a complete response, partial response, or stable disease) of the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab in patients with recurrent OC.

II. To estimate the duration of response (DoR) in patients with recurrent OC treated with the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab.

III. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with recurrent OC treated with the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab.

IV. To estimate the overall survival (OS) of patients with recurrent OC treated with the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab.

2.25 To characterize the adverse event (AE) profile in patients with recurrent OC treated with the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab induces an increase in the frequency of FRalpha-specific IL-17-secreting T cells (Th17s) in patients with recurrent OC.

II. Characterize the T cell and antibody responses to FRalpha and assess the association between the emergence of immunity and recurrence-free (RFS).

III. To determine whether the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab induces an increase in the frequency of FRalpha-specific IFNgamma-secreting T cells (Th1s) in patients with recurrent OC.

IV. To determine whether the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab induces an increase in the frequency of FRalpha-specific IgG antibodies in patients with recurrent OC.

V. To determine whether the combination of FRalphaDCs and pembrolizumab induces changes in the immune microenvironment of ovarian tumors.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo apheresis for multi-epitope folate receptor alpha-loaded dendritic cell vaccine manufacturing on study. Patients then receive multi-epitope folate receptor alpha-loaded dendritic cell vaccine intradermally (ID) on day 1 of cycles 1-5 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-8. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patient then receive multi-epitope folate receptor alpha-loaded dendritic cell vaccine ID on day 1 of odd cycles and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of remaining cycles. Cycles repeat every 42 days for up to cycle 22 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as well as blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients undergo biopsy on study.

Patients are followed up at 90 days after last dose, every 3 months until 24 months after registration or until progression of disease, and then every 6 months up to 5 years after registration.