Clinical Trial on Personalized Neoantigen Vaccine for Pancreatic Tumor
This clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and impact on prognosis of personalized neoantigen peptide-based vaccines, which are based on next-generation sequencing and major histocompatibility complex affinity prediction algorithm, in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. The hypothesis of this study is that personalized neoantigen vaccines will be safe and can systemically elicit measurable neoantigen-specific immunologic responses in patients. Participants will receive complete macroscopic resection of primary tumor, standard adjuvant chemotherapy and subsequently personalized neoantigen vaccines.
Pancreatic Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: Personalized neoantigen vaccine
Incidence and grades of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Safety will be assessed by the rate of grade 3 or worse adverse events (graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0)., From the first dose of vaccination through 2 years after the surgery
Recurrence-free survival, The time between resection surgery and the tumor recurrence (radiological assessment of disease status according to RECIST1.1 criteria)., From the date of resection surgery until the date of the first confirmed tumor recurrence or date of death from any cause or date of study completion, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 years.|Overall survival, The time between resection surgery and the death (any cause)., From the date of resection surgery until the date of death from any cause or date of study completion, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 years.|Serum CA19-9 or CA72-4 levels, The rate of patients without the abnormal elevation of the serum CA19-9 (Cancer Antigen 19-9) or CA72-4 (Cancer Antigen 72-4) levels will be assessed during the vaccination and post-treatment follow-up., From the date of resection surgery until the date of last documented examination of CA19-9 and CA72-4 or date of study completion, whichever came first, assessed up to 6 years.
Levels of interferon-γ responses in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Ex vivo Enzyme-linked Immunospot assay will be performed to detect the levels of interferon-γ responses of the neoantigen peptides in the stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Data will be presented as the ratio of the adjusted spot-forming count of peptide stimulation to the corresponding non-stimulated negative control., From the date of first dose of vaccination through 264 days after the first dose of vaccination.|Percentages of immune cell populations in peripheral blood during the vaccination, The percentages of immune cells including natural killer (NK) cells, T cells, B cells, macrophages, monocytes, dendritic cells and granulocytes as well as their subtypes will be detected in the peripheral blood of patients during the vaccination. The percentages of specific T-cell or B-cell clonotypes will also be detected during the vaccination. Ten-color flow cytometry and single-cell transcriptome sequencing will be performed to evaluate the percentage of the immune cell populations. Single-cell T/B-cell repertoire sequencings will be performed to profile the expansion of T-cell or B-cell clonotypes., From the date of first dose of vaccination through 264 days after the first dose of vaccination.
This is a single-center, open-label Phase Ib clinical trial. In this trial, adult subjects with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma who have completed resection of the primary tumor and who have not undergone preoperative chemotherapy will be enrolled in the study. Eligible enrolled patients all will undergo tumor resection and all receive adjuvant chemotherapy prior to preparation of the personalized neoantigen vaccine. After the chemotherapy finish, subsequently patients will receive a priming immunization with five doses of the personalized neoantigen vaccine over one month and a boosting immunization with two doses three months later. This clinical trial will examine the safety and effect of the personalized neoantigen vaccine when given at several different time points and will examine the participant's peripheral blood cells for signs that the vaccine induces immunologic responses. Finally we will establish the typical flow to assess efficiency and safety of vaccines according to the different reactivity of patients, as a result, to explore the most suitable practical approaches for applying personalized pancreatic tumor vaccines.