Phase I/II Study of Bosutinib in Combination With Inotuzumab Ozogamicin in CD22-positive PC Positive ALL and CML
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of bosutinib when given together with inotuzumab ozogamicin and to see how well it works in treating patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia or chronic myeloid leukemia that has come back or does not respond to treatment. Bosutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotoxins, such as inotuzumab ozogamicin, are antibodies linked to a toxic substance and may help find cancer cells that express CD22 and kill them without harming normal cells. Giving bosutinib together with inotuzumab ozogamicin may be a better treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia or chronic myeloid leukemia.
B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia With t(9;22)(q34.1;q11.2); BCR-ABL1|Blast Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Blasts More Than 5 Percent of Bone Marrow Nucleated Cells|CD22 Positive|Philadelphia Chromosome Positive, BCR-ABL1 Positive Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Refractory Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive
DRUG: Bosutinib|BIOLOGICAL: Inotuzumab Ozogamicin
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Bosutinib All Phase I Participants, Maximum tolerated dose of bosutinib defined as the highest dose level in which \< 2 patients of 6 develop first course dose limiting toxicity (Phase I). Dose levels assessed were dose 1 = 300 mg, dose 2 = 400 mg, and dose 3 = 500 mg., At day 28|Number of Participants With a Major Hematologic Response, Major Hematologic Response i(MaHR) is defined as Complete Response (CR) + Complete Remission without Incomplete Blood Count Recovery (CRi). CR was defined as absence of circulating blasts with bone marrow blasts \<5% and recovery of neutrophil count to ≥1.0 x 10\^9/L and platelet count to ≥100 x10\^9/L. The CRi was defined as meeting criteria for CR except for neutrophil and/or platelet recovery. Response was assessed by bone marrow analysis after each cycle of therapy until attainment of CR/CRi., Up to 6 years, 11 months
Duration of Response, Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Response date to loss of response or last follow up., Up to 6 years, 11 months|Overall Survival (OS), Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Time from date of treatment start until date of death due to any cause or last Follow-up., Up to 6 years, 11 months
If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a study group based on when you join this study and whether or not you have received earlier treatment for leukemia. Up to 36 participants will be enrolled in Part 1 of the study, and up to 44 participants will be enrolled in Part 2.

If you are enrolled in Part 2, you will receive bosutinib at the highest dose that was tolerated in Part 1. All participants in Parts 1 and 2 will receive the same dose of inotuzumab ozogamicin.

Study Drug Administration. You will take bosutinib tablets by mouth 1 time each day with food. If you miss or vomit a dose of bosutinib, do not take "make up" the dose. Wait and take your next dose as scheduled the next day.

You will also receive inotuzumab ozogamicin by vein over about 1 hour on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle. If the doctor thinks it is needed, you may switch to a different dosing schedule and receive inotuzumab ozogamicin 1 time every 4 weeks.

You will be given standard drugs (such as acetaminophen/paracetamol, antihistamines, and/or steroids) to help decrease the risk of side effects. If your doctor thinks it is needed, you may also receive hydroxyurea to control your white blood cell count while you are on study. You may ask the study staff for information about how these drugs are given and their risks.

Follow-Up After your end-of-treatment visit or call, you will be called 1 time about every 12 weeks (for up to 1 year) and asked about any anti-cancer therapy you may have started. This call will last about 5 minutes.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 1 year.