Microdevice In Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, And Peritoneal Cancer
This pilot study will assess the feasibility of using an implantable microdevice to measure local intratumor response to chemotherapy and other clinically relevant drugs in ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer.

The name of the study intervention involved in this study is:

-implantable microdevice
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer|Ovarian Cancer Stage III|Ovarian Cancer Stage IV|Fallopian Tube Cancer Stage IV|Fallopian Tube Cancer Stage III
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Microdevice
Number of participants with adverse events as defined in the CTCAE v5.0, Descriptive statistics will be used to evaluate the safety of microdevice placement and removal, including reporting the maximum grade AE by type and organ class with 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 2 months|Number of implanted microdevices successfully retrieved, Defined as the ability to retrieve the microdevice with sufficient tissue, of sufficient quality, for downstream histopathology analysis and interpretation of at least 50% of the microdevice reservoirs. For purposes of this endpoint, feasibility will be assessed on a per-device basis rather than a per-patient basis, with each microdevice considered to be relatively independent in terms of placement, retrieval, and analysis., Up to 32 hours
Measure local intratumor response to different agents, Response assessed via apoptotic index measured by immunohistochemistry.

Inferences will use two-sided alpha = 0.05 and report 95% confidence intervals with any point estimates., Up to 32 hours|Correlate extent of tumor response with platinum response category, Platinum response category is defined as follows for both initial and secondary platinum exposure: platinum refractory (progression within 2 months of platinum-based chemotherapy), platinum resistant (progression within 2-6 months of platinum-based chemotherapy), and platinum sensitive (progression within 6-12 months of platinum based chemotherapy).

For dichotomous/categorical tumor features and patient outcomes, we will use Fisher's exact test. For continuous variables we will use a two-sided t-test if the data is approximately normally distributed, and Wilcoxon rank sum test if otherwise., Up to 3 years|Correlate extent of tumor response with platinum-free interval, Platinum-free interval is defined as the interval between the date of the last platinum dose and the date of relapse detection.

For dichotomous/categorical tumor features and patient outcomes, we will use Fisher's exact test. For continuous variables we will use a two-sided t-test if the data is approximately normally distributed, and Wilcoxon rank sum test if otherwise., Up to 3 years|Correlate extent of tumor response with progression-free survival, Progression defined using RECIST 1.1 criteria; progression-free survival measured in months.

For dichotomous/categorical tumor features and patient outcomes, we will use Fisher's exact test. For continuous variables we will use a two-sided t-test if the data is approximately normally distributed, and Wilcoxon rank sum test if otherwise., Up to 3 years|Correlate extent of tumor response with exploratory biomarkers of drug response, Candidate biomarkers for chemotherapy and PARP inhibitor response in ovarian cancer include RAD51 focus formation, markers of DNA damage (e.g. gamma-H2AX), and immune infiltrates. Each biomarker will be evaluated by immunohistochemistry to generate a quantitative score for the number of marker-positive cells per number of cells analyzed. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the results for each biomarker across multiple microdevices and drugs., Up to 32 hours|Compare extent of tumor response to drug among multiple microdevices implanted within a single tumor, Response will be assessed via apoptotic index measured by immunohistochemistry and will be compared among multiple microdevices implanted within a single tumor., Up to 32 hours|Correlate extent of tumor response with genetic features of the tumor tissue, Genetic alterations will be catalogued in terms of single nucleotide variants, insertions/deletions, and copy number changes in individual genes in the tumor tissue. Each alteration will be scored as "present" or "absent" in a tumor. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the frequency of each genomic event across multiple microdevices and drugs., Up to 32 hours
This research study will assess the feasibility of using an implantable microdevice to measure local intratumor response to chemotherapy and other clinically relevant drugs in ovarian, fallopian tube, and primary peritoneal cancer.

Participants with suspected or confirmed ovarian cancer whose treatment plan includes surgery as a component of standard-of-care treatment will be identified.

-The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow-up.

The name of the study intervention involved in this study is: implantable microdevice

* Participant will undergo percutaneous placement of several microdevices in a selected tumor deposit prior to surgery. The microdevices will dwell in the tumor tissue for approximately 24 +/- 8 hours to allow time for tissue effects of the drugs in the microdevice reservoirs. Microdevices will then be removed by resection of the tumor mass during a previously planned, and clinically indicated, surgical procedure.
* It is expected that about 20 people will take part in this research study.

This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining this microdevice. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the microdevice as a tool to identify which cancer treatment is best for any disease.