MT027 Cell Injection in Patients With Advanced Primary or Secondary Peritoneal Tumors
This study is a single-arm, dose-escalation, investigator-initiated exploratory clinical trial designed to evaluate the tolerability, safety, pharmacokinetic profile, and preliminary efficacy of MT027 Cell Injection in patients with advanced primary or secondary peritoneal tumors.
Peritoneal Tumor
DRUG: Fludarabine
Adverse Events (AEs), Incidence and severity of adverse events., 2 years|Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Incidence and severity of serious adverse events., 2 years|Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI), Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI)(Incidence and severity ) Incidence and severity of adverse event of special interest., 2 years|Identification of Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) & Incidence of Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Incidence and severity of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) following infusion of CAR-T cell injection, at each dose level tested in dose escalation phase., 4 weeks after the CAR-T cells infusion
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The Objective Response Rate (ORR) is the percentage of participants who achieved Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) based on RECIST version 1.1., 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) is the percentage of participants who achieved Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) or Stable disease (SD) based on RECIST version 1.1., 2 years|Duration of Overall Response (DOR), Time from documentation of disease response to disease progression., 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from CAR-T infusion to the date of the disease progression or death from any cause., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from CAR-T infusion to the date of death due to any cause., 2 years|Bio-distribution of Anti mesothelin CAR-T cells, CAR copies will be measured by qPCR to evaluate the expansion and persistenc e of CAR-T cells in vivo. Cmax, Tmax, AUC0-tlast and AUC0-inf of CAR copies will be analyzed.

Cmax is the maximum CAR level in peripheral blood or bone marrow. Tmax is time to peak CAR level in blood or bone marrow. AUC0-tlast and AUC0-inf are area under the curve of the CAR level in blood ., 2 years|Cytokine Level in Peripheral Blood, Level of cytokines in serum., 2 years|Anti-drug Antibodies, Number of participants with anti-drug antibodies., 2 years|RP2D, The RP2D is the optimal dose level selected for further evaluation in Phase II clinical trials, based on safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic (PK), pharmacodynamic (PD), and preliminary efficacy data gathered during Phase I dose-escalation studies. It represents the dose that balances maximum therapeutic benefit with acceptable toxicity for patients., 4 weeks after the CAR-T cells infusion
This study evaluates the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamics (PD), and preliminary efficacy of intrathecal or intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of MT027 in glioma treatment. Partial clinical data have been presented at the 2024 ASCO Annual Meeting. Dose Groups: Three predefined dose levels: 1×10⁷ cells/dose、3×10⁷ cells/dose、6×10⁷ cells/dose. Administration frequency: Every 2 weeks (with a 4-week dose-limiting toxicity \[DLT\] observation period after the first injection, followed by subsequent injections every 2 weeks). Dose Escalation: Accelerated titration + 3+3 design: First dose cohort: Accelerated titration strategy. Subsequent cohorts: Standard "3+3" dose-escalation. Dose Adjustment: After reaching predefined dose levels, if no DLT or significant safety events occur, dose escalation decisions (including MTD determination) will be jointly reviewed by investigators and collaborators based on integrated safety and efficacy data. Primary Objectives: To assess the safety, tolerability, and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MT027 cell injection in patients with advanced primary or secondary peritoneal tumors.