Ultrasound for the Detection of Oxaliplatin-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy
This pilot clinical trial studies how well ultrasound works in detecting oxaliplatin-induced neuropathy in patients with gastrointestinal cancer. Ultrasound may work better in diagnosing and detecting neuropathy in gastrointestinal cancer patients treated with the chemotherapy drug called a oxaliplatin.
Gastrointestinal Cancer|Colorectal Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Ultrasound - Serial and Tibial Nerve|PROCEDURE: Skin Biopsy|OTHER: Abbreviated Neurologic Exam|OTHER: Blood draw|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Nerve Conduction Study|OTHER: QLQ-CIPN20 Questionnaire Administration
Tibial Nerve Cross-Sectional Area Comparison, Tibial nerve cross-sectional area determined by ultrasound in oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients will be transformed to compare to historical data previously collected from healthy adults and oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients using analysis of variance (ANOVA)., Up to 30 days
Sural Nerve Cross-Sectional Area Comparison, Sural nerve cross-sectional area determined by ultrasound in oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients will be transformed to compare to historical data previously collected from healthy adults and oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients using analysis of variance (ANOVA)., Up to 30 days|Amplitude of Nerve Response of Tibial Nerve, Amplitude will be obtained from a nerve conduction study. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient will be used to examine the associations between nerve cross-sectional area and nerve conduction studies., Up to 30 days|Amplitude of Nerve Response of Sural Nerve, Amplitude will be obtained from a nerve conduction study. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient will be used to examine the associations between nerve cross-sectional area and nerve conduction studies., Up to 30 days|Distal Latency of Nerve Response of Tibial Nerve, Distal latency will be obtained from a nerve conduction study. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient will be used to examine the associations between nerve cross-sectional area and nerve conduction studies., Up to 30 days|Distal Latency of Nerve Response of Sural Nerve, Distal latency will be obtained from a nerve conduction study. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient will be used to examine the associations between nerve cross-sectional area and nerve conduction studies., Up to 30 days|Conduction Velocity of Nerve Response of Tibial Nerve, Conduction velocity will be obtained from a nerve conduction study. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient will be used to examine the associations between nerve cross-sectional area and nerve conduction studies., Up to 30 days|Conduction Velocity of Nerve Response of Sural Nerve, Conduction velocity will be obtained from a nerve conduction study. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient will be used to examine the associations between nerve cross-sectional area and nerve conduction studies., Up to 30 days|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy 20 (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Questionnaire, A 20-item self-reported neuropathy score questionnaire for participants to report neuropathy symptoms or problems. Scoring ranges from 1-4, 1 being not at all, 4 being very much., Up to 30 days|Reduction of Intraepidermal Nerve Fiber Density, Biopsies will be taken from the distal leg or proximal thigh to evaluate peripheral neuropathy. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient will be used to examine the associations between nerve cross-sectional area and intraepidermal nerve fiber density., Up to 30 days
Primary Objectives

I. To compare tibial motor nerve ultrasound cross-sectional area between oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients and historical data among healthy adults.

Secondary Objective

I. To compare sural sensory nerve ultrasound cross-sectional area between oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients and historical data among healthy adults.

II. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with nerve conduction study changes in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients.

III. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with changes on a self-reported neuropathy scale (QLQ-CIPN20) in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients.

IV. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with intraepidermal nerve fiber density changes on skin biopsy in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients.

Exploratory Objectives I. To assess activated mast cells in skin biopsies in oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients in relation to severity of symptoms and above findings.

II. To assess serum inflammatory markers in oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients in relation to severity of symptoms and above findings.

III. Exploratory Cohort (Oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy, OIPN) Objectives

IV. To compare tibial motor nerve ultrasound cross-sectional area between oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients and historical data among healthy adults and OIPN patients

V. To compare sural sensory nerve ultrasound cross-sectional area between oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients and historical data among healthy adults and oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients

VI. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with nerve conduction study changes in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients

VII. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with changes on a self-reported neuropathy scale (QLQ-CIPN20) in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients

VIII. To determine if the above changes in nerve cross-sectional area correlate with intraepidermal nerve fiber density changes on skin biopsy in the same oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy patients