Fibrin Sealant in Preventing Fluid Build Up During Surgery in Patients Undergoing Breast Reconstruction
The purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy of an alternative surgical technique and the use of fibrin sealant in preventing post-operative seroma formation. A seroma is a build-up of clear bodily fluids in a place on the body where tissue has been removed by surgery. Seromas can happen after breast surgeries. Seromas can appear about 7 to 10 days after surgery, after the drainage tubes have been removed. The breast area involved in the surgery may have a spot that's swollen and feels like there is liquid under the skin
Breast Cancer|Perioperative/Postoperative Complications
DRUG: fibrin sealant (Beriplast P, TISSEEL VH)|PROCEDURE: breast reconstruction|PROCEDURE: breast reconstruction
Proportion of Patients in Each Arm Who Develop Post-operative Seromas, Computed with 95% confidence interval using exact method. The difference of seroma rate in the two groups will be computed with 95% confidence interval using exact method. Two-sided Fisher's exact test will be used to evaluate whether the seroma rate are significantly different for the two treatment groups., Up to day 180 post-operation
Proportion of Patients Who Experienced Wound Infections, Wound Separation, or Any Other Surgical Complications, Computed with 95% confidence interval using exact method. Two-sided Fisher's exact test will be used to evaluate whether the wound complication rate are significantly different for the two treatment groups, and the odds ratio with 95% confidence interval will be computed., Up to day 180 post-operation|Quantity of Post-operative Drainage, Defined as total volume of drainage recorded (in ml) by nurses while the patient is in the hospital and by patient himself/herself when discharged home, until the removal of the drain by a doctor once it reaches less than 50 ml per day. Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to compare the drainage volume of the two groups., Up to day 10 post-operation|Serious and Nonserious Adverse Events and Complications, Up to day 180 post-operation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate differing surgical techniques (sharp dissection v. electrosurgical, use of fibrin glue) in latissimus dorsi donor flap harvest and their effect, if any on the prevention of post-operative seromas.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo sharp dissection technique with fibrin sealant closure.

ARM II: Patients undergo standard electrocoagulation dissection technique.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 90-180 days.