Comparison of MORbidity of Submucosal DIssection Resection of Giant cOlon Lesions Versus Surgery: a National Multicenter Study (MORDIGO)
Propose a one-piece endoscopic resection such as endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) rather than surgery for benign lesions and superficial T1 cancers colorectal cancers offers comparable efficacy with better tolerability. This approach is all the more in the rectum, even for giant lesions lesions (over 8cm), as rectal surgery is particularly morbid, with particularly morbid, with a functional impact that can impact, whereas rectal ESD is less prone to complications fewer complications than in the colon. Colonic ESD for giant lesions is a longer and more morbid more time-consuming and morbid than for smaller lesions, the question of colonic surgery in this indication. this indication. In order to compare the morbidity data of patients of giant lesions with those of colectomy, a control group colectomy, a surgical control group will be set up, including patients including patients having undergone surgery for in situ T1 or T2 in situ colon cancer. Surgical resections of resection of benign lesions is generally not indicated not indicated and would not provide the necessary necessary for a comparison. T3 and T4 lesions with their own their own morbidity will be excluded.
Colonic Neoplasms
30 days severe morbidity, Comparison of severe morbidity (Clavien dindo ≥ IIIb) at 30 days of patients who underwent DSM for giant colonic lesion (group A) to that of patients who underwent surgery surgery equivalent to that which would be performed for such a lesion (group B), 30 days
morbidity of ESD group, 30 days|comparison of morbidity in both groups, 30 days|reintervention, 30 days|stomia, 30 days|length of hospital stay, 30 days|readmission, 30 days|mortality, 30 days|risk factors for morbidity, 30 days
Propose a one-piece endoscopic resection such as endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) rather than surgery for benign lesions and superficial T1 cancers colorectal cancers offers comparable efficacy with better tolerability. This approach is all the more in the rectum, even for giant lesions lesions (over 8cm), as rectal surgery is particularly morbid, with particularly morbid, with a functional impact that can impact, whereas rectal ESD is less prone to complications fewer complications than in the colon. Colonic ESD for giant lesions is a longer and more morbid more time-consuming and morbid than for smaller lesions, the question of colonic surgery in this indication. this indication. In order to compare the morbidity data of patients of giant lesions with those of colectomy, a control group colectomy, a surgical control group will be set up, including patients including patients having undergone surgery for in situ T1 or T2 in situ colon cancer. Surgical resections of resection of benign lesions is generally not indicated not indicated and would not provide the necessary necessary for a comparison. T3 and T4 lesions with their own their own morbidity will be excluded.