A Study of ASP1948, Targeting an Immune Modulatory Receptor as a Single Agent and in Combination With a PD-l Inhibitor (Nivolumab or Pembrolizumab) in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the tolerability and safety profile of ASP1948 when administered as a single agent and in combination with nivolumab or pembrolizumab in participants with locally advanced (unresectable) or metastatic solid tumors; characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of ASP1948 when administered as a single agent and in combination with nivolumab or pembrolizumab and determine the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of ASP1948 when administered as a single agent and in combination with nivolumab or pembrolizumab. This study will also evaluate the antitumor effect of ASP1948 when administered as a single agent and in combination with nivolumab or pembrolizumab.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: ASP1948|DRUG: nivolumab|DRUG: pembrolizumab
Number of Participants with Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLT is any AE that cannot be attributed to a cause other than study drug:

Grade (Gr) 4 NTP or Gr ≥ 3 febrile NTP Gr 4 TCP; or Gr 3 TCP accompanied by bleeding that requires transfusion Gr 4 anemia or Gr 3 anemia requiring transfusion Gr ≥ 3 NHAE Gr ≥ 2 pneumonitis AST or ALT \> 5x upper limit of normal (ULN; Gr ≥ 3) without liver metastases AST or ALT \> 8 x ULN in participants with liver metastases AST or ALT \> 3 x ULN \& total bilirubin \> 2 x ULN (in participant with Gilbert syndrome: AST or ALT \> 3x ULN \& direct bilirubin \> 1.5 x ULN) Total bilirubin \> 3x ULN (Gr ≥ 3) Gr ≥ 2 encephalopathy, meningitis, or motor or sensory neuropathy Gr ≥ 2 pulmonary or CNS hemorrhage Gr ≥ 3 hemorrhage GBS or MS/MG IRR leading to infusion discontinuation Prolonged delay in initiating cycle 2 due to TRT Any TRT that caused participant to discontinue treatment during DLT period Missing \>25% of ASP1948 or pembrolizumab doses as a result of drug-related AE(s) during DLT period Gr 5 toxicity., Up to 28 days|Number of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable \& unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product. An AE is considered "serious" if, it resulted in any of the following outcomes: results in death; is life-threatening; results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity or substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions; results in congenital anomaly, or birth defect; requires inpatient hospitalization; or leads to prolongation of hospitalization; other medically important events. TEAE is defined as an AE observed after starting administration of the study drug., From first dose until 90 days after last dose (up to 823 days)|Number of Participants with Immune-related AEs, Immune-related AEs observed with currently approved checkpoint inhibitors (CPIs) include rash, oral mucositis, dry mouth, colitis/diarrhea, hepatitis, pneumonitis, and endocrinopathies (hypophysitis, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, adrenal insufficiency and Type 1 diabetes mellitus). Other less frequent irAEs associated with CPIs include: nephritis; pancreatitis; myositis; arthritis; neurologic toxicities (Guillain-Barre syndrome, myasthenia gravis, posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome, aseptic meningitis, enteric neuropathy, transverse myelitis, and autoimmune encephalitis), cardiotoxicity (myocarditis and conduction abnormalities); hematologic toxicity (red cell aplasia, neutropenia, thrombo-cytopenia, acquired hemophilia A, and cryoglobulinemia); and eye inflammation (episcleritis, conjunctivitis, uveitis or orbital inflammation). TEAE is defined as an AE observed after starting administration of the study drug., From first dose until 30 days after last dose (up to 763 days)|Number of Participants with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status, The ECOG is used to assess performance status. Number of participants in each of the ECOG PS grade were reported.

0 = Fully active, able to carry on all predisease performance without restriction;

1. Restricted in physically strenuous activity, but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature;
2. Ambulatory and capable of all self-care, but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours;
3. Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours;
4. Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair.

Negative change scores indicate an improvement. Positive scores indicate a decline in performance., End of Treatment (Baseline up to 733 days)|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Area Under The Concentration-Time Curve From The Time Zero to The Last Measurable Concentration (AUClast), AUClast is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): AUClast, AUClast is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve From the Time of Dosing Extrapolated to Time Infinity (AUCinf), AUCinf is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Percentage of AUCinf Due to Extrapolation From Time of The Last Measurable Concentration To Time Infinity (AUCinf %extrap), AUCinf %extrap is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Area Under The Concentration-Time Curve From The Time of Dosing to The Start of Next Dosing Interval (AUCtau), AUCtau is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Maximum Concentration (Cmax), Cmax is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): Cmax, Cmax is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): Trough Concentration (Ctrough), Ctrough is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: Predose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Time of The Maximum Concentration (tmax), tmax is derived from the PK serum samples collected, Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): tmax, tmax is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): AUCtau, AUCtau is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Terminal Elimination Half-Life ( t1/2), t1/2 is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Time of Last Measurable Concentration (tlast), tlast is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): Terminal Elimination Half-Life ( t1/2), t1/2 is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): tlast, tlast is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Total Clearance (CL) after Intravenous Dosing, CL is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): CL after Intravenous Dosing, CL is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Volume of Distribution During the Terminal Elimination Phase (Vz) After Intravenous Dosing, Vz is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): Vz After Intravenous Dosing, Vz is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 1): Apparent Volume of Distribution at Steady State (Vss) after Intravenous Dosing, Vss is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 1: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose|PK of ASP1948 (Cycle 10): Vss After Intravenous Dosing, Vss is derived from the PK serum samples collected., Cycle 10: pre-dose, within 20 minutes after end of dosing, 4 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours, 168 hours post dose
Objective Response Rate (ORR) as per RECIST V1.1, ORR as per RECIST 1.1 is defined as the percentage of participants for each dose level whose best overall response is rated as confirmed CR or PR. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm from baseline measurement. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters (longest for nonnodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions) of target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of diameters., From start of study until radiographical progression or date of censoring (maximum treatment duration: up to 733 days)|ORR as per iRECIST V1.1, ORR as per iRECIST is defined as the percentage of participants for each dose level whose best overall response is rated as confirmed iCR or iPR. iCR is defined as disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm from baseline measurement. iPR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters (longest for nonnodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions) of target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of diameters., From start of study until radiographical progression or date of censoring (maximum treatment duration: up to 733 days)|Duration of Response (DOR) as per RECIST V1.1, DOR as per RECIST 1.1 is defined as the time from the date of the first response CR/PR (whichever is first recorded) to the date of radiographical progression or date of censoring. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm from baseline measurement. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters (longest for non nodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions) of target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of diameters., From the date of the first response CR/PR to the date of radiographical progression or date of censoring (maximum treatment duration: up to 733 days)|DOR as per iRECIST, DOR as per iRECIST is defined as the time from the date of the first response iCR/iPR (whichever is first recorded) to the date of radiographical progression or date of censoring. iCR is defined as disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm from baseline measurement. iPR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters (longest for nonnodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions) of target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of diameters., From the date of the first response CR/PR to the date of radiographical progression or date of censoring (maximum treatment duration: up to 733 days)|Persistence of response after discontinuation per RECIST V1.1, Persistence of response as per RECIST 1.1 is defined as the time from the date of treatment discontinuation to the date of radiographical progression or date of censoring. Persistence of response is derived for participants who at the time of treatment discontinuation had a confirmed response of CR or PR based on RECIST 1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm from baseline measurement. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters (longest for nonnodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions) of target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of diameters., From date of treatment discontinuation to the date of radiographical progression or date of censoring (maximum duration: up to 733 days)|Persistence of response after discontinuation per iRECIST, Persistence of response as per iRECIST is defined as the time from the date of treatment discontinuation to the date of radiographical progression or date of censoring. Persistence of response is derived for participants who at the time of treatment discontinuation had a confirmed response of iCR or iPR. iCR is defined as disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm from baseline measurement. iPR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters (longest for nonnodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions) of target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of diameters., From date of treatment discontinuation to the date of radiographical progression or date of censoring (maximum treatment duration: up to 733 days)|Disease Control Rate (DCR) by RECIST 1.1, DCR as per RECIST 1.1 is defined as percentage of participants for each dose level whose BOR is rated as confirmed CR, PR or Stable Disease (SD). CR is defined as disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm from baseline measurement. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters (longest for nonnodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions) of target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of diameters. SD is defined as neither sufficient decrease to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters. Progressive disease (PD): \>= 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum, and sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of \>= 5 mm. Appearance of 1 or more new lesions is also considered progression., From start of study until radiographical progression or date of censoring (maximum treatment duration: up to 733 days)|DCR by iRECIST, DCR as per RECIST 1.1 is defined as percentage of participants for each dose level whose BOR is rated as confirmed CR, PR or Stable Disease (SD). CR is defined as disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm from baseline measurement. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters (longest for nonnodal lesions, short axis for nodal lesions) of target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of diameters. SD is defined as neither sufficient decrease to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters. Progressive disease (PD): \>= 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum, and sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of \>= 5 mm. Appearance of 1 or more new lesions is also considered progression., From start of study until radiographical progression or date of censoring (maximum treatment duration: up to 733 days)
This is a dose-escalation and expansion study of ASP1948 as a single agent and in combination with nivolumab or pembrolizumab. The study consists of 3 periods for monotherapy and combination therapy: screening, treatment and follow up, followed by an optional Re-treatment period for participants that qualify.

The escalation cohorts will evaluate escalating dose levels of ASP1948 in participants with locally advanced (unresectable) or metastatic solid tumor malignancies.

After discontinuation of study drug, all participants will complete an end-of-treatment visit, along with 30-day and 90-day safety follow-up visits from the last dose of study drug.

For dose expansion, the tumor-specific cohorts will include participants with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN), non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC), ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer and breast cancer, as well as any tumor types that respond to study drug treatment during dose escalation.