Natural History of Liver Cirrhosis Diagnosed by Transient Elastography in HIV/HCV-coinfected Patients
Prospective multicenter cohort recruiting consecutive patients from 7 hospitals in Andalusia, southern Spain, according to following criteria: 1) HIV infection, 2) Chronic active HCV infection, 3) Older than 18 years, 4) New diagnosis of liver cirrhosis on the basis of a liver stiffness above 14 kiloPascals, 5) No previous or concomitant decompensation of liver disease. Patients are prospectively followed-up according to a uniform protocol of care. Epidemiological, clinical and laboratory variables are periodically recorded. The primary outcomes are the emergence of a liver decompensation (including hepatocellular carcinoma), liver transplant or death. The predictors of these outcomes are analyzed.
Liver Cirrhosis|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|HIV|HCV Coinfection
Proportion of patients who developed a first liver decompensation of cirrhosis during follow-up, Episodes of liver decompensation will include those episodes of ascites, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, portal hypertensive gastrointestinal bleeding, hepatorrenal syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatocellular carcinoma, non obstructive jaundice and acute on chronic liver failure. These episodes will be diagnosed according to standard definitions of clinical practice guidelines in the field (i.e. HCC diagnosis will be diagnosed according to AASLD criteria, spontaneous bacterial peritonitis and hepatorenal syndrome will be diagnosed following the EASL criteria, portal hypertensive gastrointestinal bleeding according Baveno VI consensus definition,...), 3 years
Liver-related mortality, Probability of liver-related death after enrollment, 3 Years|All cause mortality, Probability of death of any cause, 3 Years
Prospective multicenter cohort recruiting consecutive patients from 7 hospitals in Andalusia, southern Spain, according to following criteria: 1) HIV infection, 2) Chronic active HCV infection, 3) Older than 18 years, 4) New diagnosis of liver cirrhosis on the basis of a liver stiffness above 14 kiloPascals, 5) No previous or concomitant decompensation of liver disease. Patients are prospectively followed-up according to a uniform protocol of care. Epidemiological, clinical and laboratory variables are periodically recorded. The primary outcomes are the emergence of a liver decompensation (including hepatocellular carcinoma), liver transplant or death. The predictors of these outcomes are analyzed.