Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Temozolomide in Subjects With Brain Metastases of Either Malignant Melanoma, Breast, or Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (P02064)
The study implies a 2 step study design. Patients are enrolled into 3 separate groups for melanoma, breast, and non-small cell lung cancer. In the first step, 21 patients per disease group are enrolled. If \>=2 objective responses (SD, PR, or CR) out of 21 evaluable patients are observed, enrollment continues for other 45 patients as a whole, where response will be positively evaluated if \>=10 patients will respond. If \<2 objective responses out of 21 evaluable patients per disease group are observed, this(ese) group(s) will no longer be treated with temozolomide.
Metastases of Central Nervous System|Melanoma|Breast Neoplasm|Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Temozolomide
Best response related to brain metastases observed during the study period., After 2 months of initial treatment. If response or stable disease evaluations were performed every 3 months. Subsequently, an additional check up was added by amendment: a follow up check was performed after 4 weeks.
Progression-free survival, brain progression-free survival, and overall survival., After 2 months of initial treatment. If response or stable disease evaluations were performed every 3 months. Subsequently, an additional check up was added by amendment: a follow up check was performed after 4 weeks.|Adverse events according to NCI CTC grading system of toxicity., Throughout the study.
The study implies a 2 step study design. Patients are enrolled into 3 separate groups for melanoma, breast, and non-small cell lung cancer. In the first step, 21 patients per disease group are enrolled. If \>=2 objective responses (SD, PR, or CR) out of 21 evaluable patients are observed, enrollment continues for other 45 patients as a whole, where response will be positively evaluated if \>=10 patients will respond. If \<2 objective responses out of 21 evaluable patients per disease group are observed, this(ese) group(s) will no longer be treated with temozolomide.