Chidamide Bridging for CAR-T Therapy
The previous research suggests that the low expression of NOXA protein may be an important biomarker for the treatment of drug resistance of chimeric antigen receptor-T (CAR-T) cells. Up regulating the expression of NOXA through histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) can improve drug resistance and significantly improve the therapeutic effect of CAR-T cells. This study will enroll approximately 120 subjects with recurrent or refractory (r/r) B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). Those with high expression of NOXA will receive conventional CAR-T treatment (without chidamide bridging), and those with low expression of NOXA will be randomly assigned 1:1 to those without or containing chidamide bridging. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the clinical response and safety of chidamide bridging.
Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Chidamide|DRUG: Fludarabine and cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Anti-CD19 CAR-T cells
Percentage of participants with progression-free survival (PFS) at 6 months after CAR-T infusion among all participants, PFS is defined as the time between the date of CAR-T infusion and disease progression or death from any cause. At the time of statistical analysis of study endpoints, there were no PFS events, and data were truncated as the date of the last objective tumor evaluation. Patients who were lost to follow-up or withdrew informed consent will be included in the end point evaluation, with data truncated as the date of the last objective tumor evaluation., 6 months
Incidence of adverse events (AE) of chidamide bridging and subsequent CAR-T infusion arm, AE is defined as any adverse medical event from the time between the date of randomization and the date of 12 months after CAR-T infusion. AE may be an adverse sign (including abnormal laboratory tests, etc.), symptom, or illness that is not related to the purpose of medication and is time-related to drug use, regardless of causality to the drug, such as long-term cytopenia, cytokine release syndrome, neurotoxicity, etc., 12 months|Participants with objective response rate (ORR) at 3 months after CAR-T infusion among all participants, ORR was defined as the percentage of subjects who achieved complete response or partial response assessed by investigators and based on the Lugano 2014 assessment criterion. All subjects who do not meet objective response criteria by the data analysis deadline will be considered nonresponders. The source of this endpoint will only include the assessment of response obtained after CAR-T infusion and prior to any additional antitumor therapy., 3 months|Participants with complete response rate (CRR) at 3 months after CAR-T infusion among all participants, CRR was defined as the percentage of subjects who achieved a CR assessed by investigators and based on the Lugano 2014 assessment criterion., 3 months|Percentage of participants with recurrence-free survival (RFS) at 6 months after CAR-T infusion among all participants, RFS was defined as the time between the date of CAR-T infusion and the date of first lymphoma recurrence (local, regional, distant metastasis) or death (whatever the cause) for subjects who received complete response after CAR-T infusion. For participants who remained alive and whose disease had not recurred, RFS was censored on the date of last visit/contact with disease assessments., 6 months|Percentage of participants with RFS at 12 months after CAR-T infusion among all participants, RFS was defined as above., 12 months|Percentage of participants with PFS at 12 months after CAR-T infusion among all participants, PFS was defined as above., 12 months|Percentage of participants with overall survival (OS) at 12 months after CAR-T infusion among all participants, OS was defined as the time between the date of CAR-T infusion and death from any cause., 12 months
Effect of chidamide intervention on NOXA expression, For the group with low NOXA expression, a secondary biopsy was performed at the same site to detect changes in NOXA expression before CAR-T infusion. In the chidamide bridging group, the timing of secondary biopsy was arranged at least 6 times' chidamide therapy and before CAR-T infusion., an average of 4 weeks
Background:

CAR-T cell therapy has been shown to be superior to conventional therapy in patients with r/r B-cell NHL. However, prior clinical studies and real-world data suggest that approximately 30-40% of cases of drug resistance still occur after CAR-T cell therapy, and approximately 50-60% of cases have recurrent disease progression over time of infusion. The investigators used genome-wide CRISPR/Cas9 to screen for CAR T-resistant cells and identified low NOXA expression as associated with CAR-T resistance. NOXA protein is a member of the Bcl2 protein family, which plays a critical role in P53-dependent apoptosis. The previous research suggests that the low expression of NOXA protein may be an important biomarker for the treatment of drug resistance of CAR-T cells. Through the verification of nearly 40 clinical samples previously treated with CAR-T, the investigators found that low NOXA expression was associated with poor prognosis. Meanwhile, animal experiments demonstrated that HDACi can up-regulate the expression of NOXA in tumor cells and significantly improve the efficacy of CAR-T therapy by reducing the incidence of resistance. The research was published in Signal Transduction and Targeted Therapy in 2022.

Objective:

The primary objective of the study was to evaluate whether chidamide bridging intervention improved clinical response to CAR-T in patients with r/r B-cell NHL. A secondary objective was to evaluate the safety of bridging therapy with chidamide and subsequent CAR-T infusion in above patients. The exploratory objective was to investigate the effect of chidamide intervention on NOXA expression.

Design:

This is a multicenter, prospective, controlled, open-label, phase Ⅰ/Ⅱ study. 120 patients with r/r B-cell NHL will be enrolled. Biopsy was performed before peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) collection, and NOXA expression level was detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

Patients with high NOXA expression (IHC score \> 4) were treated with conventional CAR-T process (n=60), including PBMC collection, bridging therapy (without chidamide), fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FC) regimen conditioning, CAR-T cell infusion, efficacy evaluation and follow-up; Patients with low NOXA expression (IHC score 0 - 4) were randomly assigned 1:1 to conventional CAR-T group as mentioned earlier (n=30) or CAR-T group containing chidamide bridging therapy (n=30).

The bridging therapy regimen containing chidamide was divided into monotherapy and combination therapy. Chidamide combination intervention can be used in cases of high tumor burden, rapid progression of disease, symptoms of compression, involvement of specific sites or organs, and other burden reduction that need to be addressed. The combination of one or more of the following drugs in addition to chidamide is permitted: glucocorticoids, BTK inhibitors, chemotherapy, other previously used resistance drugs, etc.

In this study, commercial CAR-T cells (mainly Relma-cel, with Axi-cel or other commercial CAR-T cells also acceptable) or experimental CAR-T cells targeted at CD19 were acceptable.

If feasible, for the group with low NOXA expression, a secondary biopsy was performed at the same site to detect changes in NOXA expression before CAR-T infusion.