Feasibility and Efficacy of Perioperative Nivolumab With or Without Relatlimab for Patients With Potentially Resectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of neoadjuvant/adjuvant Nivolumab or Nivolumab plus Relatlimab in patients with HCC.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Relatlimab
Number of patients who complete pre-op treatment and proceed to surgery, 4 years
Number of participants experiencing study drug-related toxicities, Number of participants experiencing study drug-related adverse events Grade 3 or higher as defined by CTCAE v5.0., 4 years|Percentage of participants who obtain R0 resection, 8 weeks|Percentage of evaluable patients who obtain a pathologic complete response (pCR) or major pathologic response (MPR), 8 weeks|Objective response rate (ORR) at 8 weeks, ORR is defined as the number of patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) at any time during the study. CR = disappearance of all target lesions, PR is =\>30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, progressive disease (PD) is \>20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, stable disease (SD) is \<30% decrease or \<20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions., 8 weeks|Overall survival (OS) at 12 months, OS will be measured from date of first dose until death or end of follow-up (OS will be censored on the date the subject was last known to be alive for subjects without documentation of death at the time of analysis). Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 12 months|Overall survival (OS) at 18 months, OS will be measured from date of first dose until death or end of follow-up (OS will be censored on the date the subject was last known to be alive for subjects without documentation of death at the time of analysis). Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 18 months|Overall survival (OS) at 3 years, OS will be measured from date of first dose until death or end of follow-up (OS will be censored on the date the subject was last known to be alive for subjects without documentation of death at the time of analysis). Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 3 years|Overall survival (OS) at 5 years, OS will be measured from date of first dose until death or end of follow-up (OS will be censored on the date the subject was last known to be alive for subjects without documentation of death at the time of analysis). Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 5 years|Disease free survival (DFS) at 12 months, Number of months from the date of first treatment until disease recurrence at 12 months. Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 12 months|Disease free survival (DFS) at 18 months, Number of months from the date of first treatment until disease recurrence at 18 months. Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 18 months|Disease free survival (DFS) at 3 years, Number of months from the date of first treatment until disease recurrence at 3 years. Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 3 years|Disease free survival (DFS) at 5 years, Number of months from the date of first treatment until disease recurrence at 5 years. Estimation based on the Kaplan-Meier curve., 5 years
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of neoadjuvant/adjuvant Nivolumab or Nivolumab plus Relatlimab in patients with HCC.