Regorafenib, With Cetuximab or Panitumumab, for the Treatment of Unresectable, Locally Advanced, or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial how well regorafenib and anti-EGFR therapy (cetuximab or panitumumab) works for the treatment of patients with colorectal cancer that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable), has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced), or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Regorafenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab or panitumumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as irinotecan, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. The purpose of this research study is to compare the effects, good and/or bad, of taking regorafenib follow by cetuximab or panitumumab, to those that receive cetuximab or panitumumab before regorafenib.
BRAF V600E Negative|KRAS Gene Mutation Negative|Locally Advanced Unresectable Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|NRAS Gene Mutation Negative|Stage III Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|DRUG: Irinotecan|BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab|DRUG: Regorafenib
Overall Survival (OS), The median OS and 95% confidence intervals in each arm will be reported., 20 months
First Progression-free Survival (PFS), The median first PFS and 95% confidence intervals in each arm will be reported., 11 months|Second PFS, The median second PFS and 95% confidence intervals in each arm will be reported., 3 months|Sequential Treatment PFS, The median PFS while on sequential treatment and 95% confidence intervals in each arm will be reported., 12 months|Objective Response Rate, Point estimates and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportions in each arm will be reported., 20 months|Sequential Treatment Objective Response Rate, Point estimates and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportions will be reported., 20 months|Number of Patients Experiencing Adverse Events, The number of patients who experience a grade 3 or higher adverse event (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] version \[v.\] 5.0), regardless of attribution, will be reported by arm., 20 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the overall survival between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the first progression free survival (PFS1) of patients between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib II. To compare the second progression free survival (PFS2) of patients between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib.

III. To compare the sequential treatment progression free survival (stPFS) of patients between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib.

IV. To assess the frequency and severity of adverse events between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib.

V. To compare the objective response rate (ORR), while on initial treatment, between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody followed by regorafenib VI. To compare the objective response rate (ORR), while on sequential treatment, between evaluable patients who were randomized to receive regorafenib followed by anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody therapy compared to those that receive anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody prior to regorafenib.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess plasma pharmacodynamics biomarkers of response and resistance to therapy.

II. To explore any correlation between tissue and blood based biomarkers and clinical outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive regorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Per the treating physician's discretion, patients who experience disease progression may initiate a treatment regimen consisting of cetuximab or panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Patients may also receive irinotecan IV on days 1 and 15 as determined by the study doctor. Cycles repeat every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive cetuximab or panitumumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Patients may also receive irinotecan IV on days 1 and 15 as determined by the study doctor. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Per the treating physician's discretion, patients who experience disease progression may initiate a treatment regimen consisting of regorafenib PO QD on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, and then every 3 months for up to 3 years after randomization.