Circulating Exosome RNA in Lung Metastases of Primary High-Grade Osteosarcoma
The purpose of this study is to learn whether the profile of RNA from circulating exosomes can be used as a biomarker for lung metastases of primary high-grade osteosarcoma. Circulating exosomes plays roles in metastases in many kinds of cancer including osteosarcoma. By RNA profiling researchers may find lung metastases earlier than conventional work-up and predict the oncological outcomes.
Lung Metastases|Osteosarcoma
OTHER: Blood samples
Differences in the levels and mutations of circulating exosome RNA from patients with or without lung metastasis., Next generation sequencing will be performed to the whole RNA sequencing., Before the neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, before the definitive surgery procedure, every 6 months after surgery. up to 3 years.
Differences in the classic cell signal pathway mutations of circulating exosome RNA from patients with or without lung metastasis., Next generation sequencing will be performed to the whole RNA sequencing., Before the neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, before the definitive surgery procedure, every 6 months after surgery. up to 3 years.|Differences in the therapeutic targets mutations of circulating exosome RNA from patients with or without lung metastasis., Next generation sequencing will be performed to the whole RNA sequencing., Before the neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, before the definitive surgery procedure, every 6 months after surgery. up to 3 years.|The correlation between circulating exosome RNA mutation levels and 3-year disease-free survival (DFS), progression-free survival (PFS), lung metastases., Next generation sequencing will be performed to the whole RNA sequencing., Before the neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, before the definitive surgery procedure, every 6 months after surgery. up to 3 years.|The correlation between specific circulating exosome RNA mutations and 3-year disease-free survival (DFS), progression-free survival (PFS), lung metastases., Next generation sequencing will be performed to the whole RNA sequencing., Before the neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, before the definitive surgery procedure, every 6 months after surgery. up to 3 years.|The roles of circulating exosome micro-RNA mutations on regulation of circulating exosome RNA., Next generation sequencing will be performed to the whole RNA sequencing., Before the neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, before the definitive surgery procedure, every 6 months after surgery. up to 3 years.|The mutations of circulating exosome RNA from patients without metastasis., Next generation sequencing will be performed to the whole RNA sequencing., Before the neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, before the definitive surgery procedure, every 6 months after surgery. up to 3 years.
Investigators have performed a 4 patients pilot study under the oversight of hospital's ethics committee, and investigator found that the levels and mutations of circulating exosome RNA from patients with or without lung metastasis have significant differences. Then investigators wish to register this study to do a further research, in order to reveal the roles of circulating exosome RNA in metastases of osteosarcoma.