Addressing Mental Health of Cancer Patients and Caregivers Using a Mobile App Suite
A cancer diagnosis affects not only patients but also their caregivers. The purpose of this study is to test the feasibility of using a mobile app suite, IntelliCare, to improve the mental health of cancer patients and caregivers.
Mental Health Wellness 1|Depression|Anxiety
BEHAVIORAL: IntelliCare + Phone Coaching
Depression Symptoms, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 4-Item Depression Scale (from 29-item Profile), measures depression on a continuous scale. Scores on this scale range from 4-20, with a higher score indicating greater severity of depression., Change in depression symptoms from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Anxiety Symptoms, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 4-Item Anxiety Scale (from 29-item Profile), measures anxiety on a continuous scale. Scores on this scale range from 4-20, with a higher score indicating greater severity of anxiety., Change in anxiety symptoms from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Clinical Mood Symptoms, Patient Health Questionnaire-4 contains measures clinical symptoms of mood and anxiety disorders. Scores on this scale range from 0-12, with a higher score indicating greater severity of mood symptoms. Unlike the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System scales, this scale has pre-determined clinical cutoffs for mild, moderate, and severe symptoms, which will be used to classify severity of mood symptoms., Change in clinical mood symptoms from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)
Physical Function, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 4-Item Physical Function Scale (from 29-item Profile). Scores on this scale range from 4-20, with a higher score indicating less impairment of physical function., Change in physical function from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Life Meaning/purpose, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 4-Item Life Meaning and Purpose Scale. Scores on this scale range from 4-20, with a higher score indicating more life meaning and purpose., Change in life meaning/purpose from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Sleep Quality, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 4-Item Sleep Disturbance Scale (from 29-item Profile). Scores on this scale range from 4-20, with a higher score indicating more sleep disturbance., Change in sleep disturbance from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Fatigue, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 4-Item Fatigue Scale (from 29-item Profile). Scores on this scale range from 4-20, with a higher score indicating more fatigue., Change in fatigue from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Pain Interference, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 4-Item Fatigue Scale (from 29-item Profile). Scores on this scale range from 4-20, with a higher score indicating more pain interference in daily life., Change in Pain Interference from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Patient Health Care Utilization, Created a scale since none currently exist. Items (in order) are the following:

1. Over the past two months, how many times did you go to the emergency department?
2. Were any of these visits related to your side effects from cancer treatment? (Yes/No/I Don't Know)
3. How many visits were related to side effects from cancer treatment?
4. Over the past two months, did you ever miss a scheduled appointment for cancer treatment? (Yes/No/I Don't Know)
5. How many appointments did you miss?
6. Over the past two months, have you used any cancer support services? These include programs for emotional support, or services for transportation, lodging, or other needs related to cancer treatment. (Yes/No/I Don't Know)
7. What types of services have you used?, Change in Patient Health Care Utilization from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Caregiver Health Care Utilization, Created a scale since none currently exist. Items (in order) are the following:

1. Over the past two months, how many times did you go to the emergency department?
2. Over the past two months, how many times did you visit your primary care doctor for anything OTHER THAN routine care?
3. Over the past two months, have you used any cancer support services? These include programs for emotional support, or services for transportation, lodging, or other needs related to caregiving for your loved one with cancer. (Yes/No/I Don't Know)
4. What types of services have you used?, Change in Caregiver Health Care Utilization from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Ability to Participate in Social Roles and Activities, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System 4-Item Ability to Participate in Social Roles and Activities Scale (from 29-item Profile). Scores on this scale range from 4-20, with a higher score indicating more ability to participate in social roles and activities in daily life., Change in Ability to Participate in Social Roles and Activities from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)|Caregiver Self-Efficacy, Caregiver Self-Efficacy Scale (CaSES; Ugalde, Krishnasamy, \& Schofield, 2013). A 21-item scale developed to measure self-efficacy in informal cancer caregivers. Scores range from 0-84, with a higher score indicating more self-efficacy., Change in Caregiver Self-Efficacy from baseline to post-intervention (7 weeks after baseline)
Positive and Negative Mood, Overall, how have you felt over the past week? (Scale from 1=Very negative to 5=Very positive), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7|Drug Use, How much have you used alcohol or tobacco to cope with negative feelings? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7|Pain, How much physical pain have you experienced? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7|Social Connectedness, 1. How connected did you feel to family and friends? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely)
2. How much support did you receive from loved ones? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely)
3. How much were you able to support loved ones? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7|Anhedonia, How much interest or pleasure did you have in doing things? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7|Anxiety, How much did you feel nervous, anxious, or on edge? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7|Physical Activity, How active were you? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7|Emotion Regulation, How well have you managed negative feelings? (Scale from 1=Not at all to 5=A lot or extremely), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7|Future Positive and Negative Mood, Overall, how do you expect to feel next week? (Scale from 1=Very negative to 5=Very positive), Surveys administered during the following weeks: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7
Cancer patients and/or their caregivers will receive access to the mobile app suite, IntelliCare, as well as phone coaching that will focus on how to use the apps. IntlliCare is composed of separate apps that each target a specific aspect of mental health (e.g., reducing worry). The apps are interactive and designed for users to engage in short time bursts (e.g., less than a minute). IntelliCare was originally designed to be paired with phone coaching that focuses on how to use the apps and overcome barriers to usage.