Evaluation of Perilesional Biopsy in Diagnosis of Prostate Cancer
The goal of this multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of different prostate biopsy schemes, including perilesional/regional systematic biopsy (PB/RSB) and combination of systematic biopsy and targeted biopsy (TB+SB).

The main questions it aims to answer are:

Does PB/RSB promote the accurate diagnosis of clinically significant prostate cancer? What's the value of PB/RSB in improving the safety of prostate biopsy? Researchers will compare the cancer detection rates of PB/RSB and combination of TB+SB to explore the efficacy of different prostate biopsy schemes. They will evaluate the safety profile of different prostate biopsy schemes through the complication rates and postoperative quality of life.

Participants will:

Receive PB/RSB or TB+SB.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Perilesional/regional systematic biopsy|PROCEDURE: Combination of systematic biopsy and targeted biopsy
The clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa) detection rate for PB/RSB and TB+SB, csPCa was defined as PCa with a grade group \> 2 or GS ≥ 7. The reference standard was the pathological result., One month after the biopsy procedure.
The overall complication rate, The complication (mainly including bleeding, infection, pain, and lower urinary tract symptoms) rate after the prostate biopsy (PB/RSB or TB+SB)., One month after the biopsy procedure.|The self-reported quality of life after the prostate biopsy, The self-reported levels of pain and discomfort after the prostate biopsy was measured through visual analogue scale (VAS). The minimum and maximum values of VAS are 0 and 10. The higher VAS means the higher level of pain and discomfort., One month after the biopsy procedure.|The operation time of prostate biopsy, The operation time of prostate biopsy was defined as the time from the beginning to the end of the prostate biopsy., During the prostate biopsy procedure.|The PCa detection rate, The PCa detection rate for PB/RSB and combination of TB+SB., One month after the biopsy procedure.|The Gleason score (GS) of the biopsy sample, The Gleason score (GS) was reported by senior uropathologists according to the Standards of Reporting for MRI Targeted Biopsy Studies (START) criteria and interpreted according to the recommendations of the International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) Grade Group. The minimum and maximum of GS are 3 and 5. The higher GS means the higher pathological grade., One month after the biopsy procedure.|The Gleason score (GS) of radical prostatectomy (RP) specimens, For the RP specimens, the Gleason score (GS) was reported by senior uropathologists according to the Standards of Reporting for MRI Targeted Biopsy Studies (START) criteria and interpreted according to the recommendations of the International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) Grade Group. The minimum and maximum of GS are 3 and 5. The higher GS means the higher pathological grade., One month after the biopsy procedure.
Currently, combination of systematic biopsy and targeted biopsy (TB+SB) has been recommended for the diagnosis of patients with suspicious lesion found on multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI). Although the combined biopsy approach could effectively detect clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa), the increased number of biopsy cores would increase the risk of complications and decrease the postoperative quality of life. In recent years, urological and radiologic thinking has changed after realizing that systemic biopsies may be omitted when the chance of missing a clinically significant lesion is low, or when a systemic biopsy has already been done beforehand. More and more radiologists and urologists focused on the issue of optimization of prostate biopsy schemes. Previous studies found that the majority of csPCa were found within a band of 10-mm radius outside MRI lesions (the penumbra). Based on the penumbra theory, the perilesional/regional systematic biopsy (PB/RSB) has gradually received urologists' attention. Some studies demonstrated that the prostate cancer (PCa) detection rate was not inferior to the combined biopsy with the benefits of using fewer biopsy cores. However, the safety profile warrants further evaluation, and there is still a lack of high-quality, prospective evidence for the PB/RSB schemes. Thus, this multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT) aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PB/RSB schemes and the routine TB+SB schemes, provide high-quality evidence for the optimization of prostate biopsy schemes.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

Does PB/RSB promote the accurate diagnosis of clinically significant prostate cancer? What is the value of PB/RSB in improving the safety of prostate biopsy? This prospective, multi-institution RCT compared the csPCa detection rates of PB/RSB and combination of TB+SB. Participants were prospectively enrolled at Peking University First Hospital (Beijing, China), Beijing Hospital (Beijing, China), and Shanghai East Hospital (Shanghai, China) from July 2024 to June 2025. Participants were randomly allocated to PB/RSB group and TB+SB group.

Researchers will compare the cancer detection rates of PB/RSB and combination of TB+SB to explore the efficacy of different prostate biopsy schemes. They will evaluate the safety profile of different prostate biopsy schemes through the complication rates and postoperative quality of life.

Participants will:

Receive PB/RSB or TB+SB.