3-AP Plus Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus or Gastroesophageal Junction
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as 3-AP and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. 3-AP may help cisplatin kill more cancer cells by making them more sensitive to the drug. This phase II trial is studying how well giving 3-AP together with cisplatin works in treating patients with recurrent or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction.
Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus|Recurrent Esophageal Cancer|Stage IV Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: triapine|DRUG: cisplatin
Complete response rate, Will be calculated together with 95% confidence intervals based on the binomial distribution., Up to 2 years|Objective response rate (CR + PR), Will be calculated together with 95% confidence intervals based on the binomial distribution., Up to 2 years
Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be determined., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be determined., From the start of treatment to progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Duration of response, From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 2 years|Number of patients with various treatment-related toxicities assessed using NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Up to 2 years|Number of patients with improvement of dysphagia, Up to 2 years|Duration of improvement of dysphagia, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with recurrent or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the esophagus or gastroesophageal junction treated with 3-AP (Triapine) and cisplatin.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. II. Determine the duration of response and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.

III. Determine the palliative benefits with regard to dysphagia in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive 3-AP (Triapine) IV over 2 hours on days 1-4. Patients also receive cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on days 2 and 3 before 3-AP infusion. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed for up to 2 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 19-39 patients will be accrued for this study within 20 months.