Calcium-41 (41Ca) Chloride Aqueous Solution in Diagnosing Patients With Prostate Cancer and Bone Metastasis
RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures, such as radionuclide imaging using calcium-41 (41Ca) chloride aqueous solution, may help predict progressive disease in patients with prostate cancer and bone metastasis.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well calcium-41 (41Ca) chloride aqueous solution works in diagnosing patients with prostate cancer and bone metastasis.
Metastatic Cancer|Prostate Cancer
DRUG: 41 Ca
Number of Patients Whose Samples Were Measured for Pharmacokinetics, Pre-dose specimens will be provided immediately prior to dose administration. Day 1 specimens shall be collected by the subjects 6 hours after dosing (at home); all subsequent urine specimens may be collected at any time during the day and blood specimens should be taken at the same time of day, if feasible (e.g., morning fasted)., Samples will be collected over 18 months
Number of Patients With Urinary 41Ca Clearance Correlated to Disease Progression, Urinary 41Ca clearance will be measured and correlated with progression by RECIST 1.0 and/or PSA progression of 100% over patient nadir., Samples will be collected over 18 months|Number of Patients With Correlation Between 41Ca Clearance and Disease Stage, Measure baseline 41Ca clearance and correlate with number of baseline bone metastasis lesions., Samples will be collected over 18 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To measure the pharmacokinetics of a single oral dose of calcium-41 (41Ca) chloride aqueous solution (\^41Ca) over 18 months in patients with hormone-refractory prostate cancer and bone metastasis.
* To correlate the \^41Ca-tracer kinetics with time to disease progression, skeletal-related events, and death.

Secondary

* To correlate modulations in baseline urinary \^41Ca clearance with changes in clinically relevant disease parameters, including isotope bone scan data and PSA.
* To combine bone turnover assessments with \^41Ca and collagen/bone cell biomarkers with clinical imaging techniques, especially isotope bone scans, to provide improved stratification of disease stage.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral calcium-41 (41Ca) chloride aqueous solution (\^41Ca) on day 1. Some patients also receive oral calcium-46 (46Ca) chloride aqueous solution (\^46Ca).

Urine and blood specimens are collected periodically for 18 months. Blood samples are assayed for bone collagen residues, bone alkaline phosphatase, and PSA. Urine specimens are assessed for \^41Ca/Ca. Isotope bone scintigraphy is use to measure radioactivity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 3 years.