The Suitability of Sniff Dog as a Tool in Screening Tumors
Previous studies have demonstrated that sniff dogs can identify cancer patients from healthy subjects through sniffing exhaled breath air or blood or serum or urine or feces. It is hypothesized that sniff dogs may be used as a tool in screening cancer patients in health examination. Trained dogs will sniff serum from participants who are attending the annual health examination to identify potential or high risk subjects, and the results will be compared with the outcome of the traditional health examination, and the high risk subjects will be followed periodically for at least five years.
Neoplasia
Sensitivity and specificity in screening cancer patients, The results that obtained from the dogs will be compared with these of the pathological examinations. Sensitivity = the No. of patients identified by the dogs as cancers / the No. of patients suffering from cancer confirmed by pathological examination. Specificity = No. of subjects signaled by the dog as non-cancers / No. of subjects confirmed by pathological examination or the currently used methods as non-cancer subjects or at the end of the study, 5 years later still without cancer., up to 5 years
Behavior patterns of sniff dogs to different diseases, The behavior (lying before the tank for positive, neglecting the tanks) of the dog will be recorded and compared with the results of the pathological examination., up to 5 years
The substances used by the sniff dogs to identifying tumors, GCMS etc will be used to compare the volatile compounds between the sera from cancers patients and the from normal subjects, the suspected VOCs will be tested by the dog for conformation., up to 5 years
Previous studies have demonstrated that sniff dogs can identify cancer patients from healthy subjects through sniffing exhaled breath air or blood or serum or urine or feces. It is hypothesized that sniff dogs may be used as a tool in screening cancer patients in health examination. Trained dogs will sniff serum from participants who are attending the annual health examination to identify potential or high risk subjects, and the results will be compared with the outcome of the traditional health examination, and the high risk subjects will be followed periodically for at least five years.