Every Day Counts: A Lifestyle Program for Women With Metastatic Breast Cancer
This multi-site study is being conducted to examine dietary and activity patterns, body composition, blood and quality of life in breast cancer patients. The study will recruit 176 women with MBC in Milwaukee (n=88) and Chicago (n=88).
Metastatic Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Attention Control
Intervention adherence, Number of lifestyle coaching sessions completed out of a possible total of 16 sessions, 4 months|Intervention retention, Number of women who complete the 4-month data collection, 4 months|Intervention retention, Number of women who complete the 8-month data collection, 8 months|Change in Quality of Life, Patient reported outcomes as measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapies Breast, Fatigue and Endocrine Symptoms (FACT-B, F and ES). The FACT-G is the overarching measure with a score range of 0-108; FACT-B (breast) subscale score range is 0-40; FACT-ES (endocrine symptoms) subscale score range is 0-76; FACT-F (fatigue) subscale is 0-52. Higher scores are better., Change from baseline to 4 months|Change in Quality of Life, Patient reported outcomes as measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapies Breast, Fatigue and Endocrine Symptoms (FACT-B, F and ES). The FACT-G is the overarching measure with a score range of 0-108; FACT-B (breast) subscale score range is 0-40; FACT-ES (endocrine symptoms) subscale score range is 0-76; FACT-F (fatigue) subscale is 0-52. Higher scores are better., change from baseline to 8 months|Body composition, Ratio of percent lean mass to percent adiposity as measured by DEXA. More lean mass and less adiposity is favorable., change from baseline to 4 months|Body composition, Ratio of percent lean mass to percent adiposity as measured by DEXA. More lean mass and less adiposity is favorable., change from baseline to 8 months
Serum Biomarker Inflammation - C-Reactive Protein, Analyzed by EVE technologies using standard ELISA kits, Change from baseline to 4 month|Serum Biomarker Insulin Resistance - Insulin, Analyzed by EVE technologies using standard ELISA kits, Change from baseline to 4 month|Serum Biomarker Insulin Resistance- Glucose, Analyzed by EVE technologies using standard ELISA kits, Change from baseline to 4 month|Serum Biomarker Inflammation - Tumor Necrosis Factor - alpha, Analyzed by EVE technologies using standard ELISA kits, Change from baseline to 4 month|Serum Biomarker Insulin Resistance- C-Peptide, Analyzed by EVE technologies using standard ELISA kits, Change from baseline to 4 month|Serum Biomarker Adipokine Dysregulation - Adiponectin, Analyzed by EVE technologies using standard ELISA kits, Change from baseline to 4 month|Serum Biomarker Adipokine Dysregulation - Leptin, Analyzed by EVE technologies using standard ELISA kits, Change from baseline to 4 month|Serum Biomarker Inflammation - Interleukin 6, Analyzed by EVE technologies using standard ELISA kits, Change from baseline to 4 month
nRNA and Metabolomics - exploratory, MTo explore if microRNA (miRNA) signatures associated with inflammation and/or Metabolomics are altered with the EDC intervention. analyzed using a Seahorse Bioscience extracellular flux analyzer., Baseline to 3 months
Aims/Objectives

Aim 1. To examine the efficacy of the Every Day Counts intervention in producing significant post-intervention changes in multidimensional QOL in women with MBC.

Hypothesis 1: Women randomized to the immediate EDC intervention (n=88) will exhibit greater improvements in multidimensional QOL compared to women randomized to the attention control (n=88).

Aim 2. To investigate the mechanistic effects of the Every Day Counts intervention on body composition, adipokines, serum biomarkers of inflammation and insulin sensitivity.

Hypothesis 2: The EDC intervention leads to improved QOL through mediating factors including body composition, prognostic serum biomarkers of inflammation and/or insulin resistance.

Exploratory Aim 3: To explore if microRNA (miRNA) signatures associated with inflammation and/or Metabolomics are altered with the EDC intervention.

Hypothesis: miRNAs identified in our pilot study (miR-10a-5p, miR-205-5p, and miR-211-5p) that regulate inflammation and/or Metabolomics will be related to QOL improvements and can identify women more likely to respond to lifestyle changes.