Safety, PK, PD, and Antitumor Activity of Vecabrutinib (SNS-062) in B Lymphoid Cancers
This is an open-label Phase 1b/2 study in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL)or non hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) who have failed prior standard of care therapies including a BTK inhibitor where one is approved for the indication.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Lymphoplasmacytoid Lymphoma|Mantle-Cell Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia|Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: SNS-062
Maximum tolerated dose and/or Recommended dose of SNS-062 (Phase 1b), To determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and/or Recommended Dose (RD)within the tested SNS-062 dose range. The MTD is the highest tested dose level at which ≥6 subjects have been treated and which is associated with a Cycle 1 dose limiting toxicity (DLT) in \<33% of the subjects. The RD may be the MTD or may be a lower dose., Up to approximately 21 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) (Phase 2), Phase 2 portion of study measuring ORR and corresponding 90% confidence intervals by cohort. ORR will be defined by disease subtype as the proportion of subjects who achieve CLL/SLL: a CR, CRi, or PR., Up to approximately 36 months
Safety as assessed through reported AEs, SAEs, DLTs and abnormal lab findings (Phase 1b and Phase 2), Type, severity, timing of onset, duration, and relationship to study drug of any TEAEs or abnormalities of laboratory tests, SAEs, DLTs, or AEs leading to study discontinuation., Up to approximately 36 months|Characterization of Pharmacokinetics (AUC) (Phase 1b and Phase 2), Area Under the Curve (AUC), Up to approximately 36 months|Characterization of Pharmacokinetics (Cmin,ss) (Phase 1b and Phase 2), Minimum Plasma Concentration During Dosing Interval at Steady-State (Cmin,ss), Up to approximately 36 months|Characterization of Pharmacokinetics (Cmax) (Phase 1b and Phase 2), Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Up to approximately 36 months|Characterization of Pharmacokinetics (Tmax) (Phase 1b and Phase 2), Time of Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax), Up to approximately 36 months|Preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity, in terms of Time to Response (TTR) as assessed by the Investigator. (Phase 2), Measure of Time to Response (TTR) as evaluated by standard response and progression criteria for CLL/SLL., Up to approximately 36 months|Preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity, in terms of Duration of Response (DOR) as assessed by the Investigator. (Phase 2), Measure of Duration of Response (DOR) as evaluated by standard response and progression criteria for CLL/SLL., Up to approximately 36 months|Preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity, in terms of Response Rate (RR) as assessed by the Investigator. (Phase 2), Measure of Response Rate (RR) as evaluated by standard response and progression criteria for CLL/SLL., Up to approximately 36 months|Preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity, in terms of Disease Control Rate (DCR) as assessed by the Investigator. (Phase 2), Measure of Disease Control Rate (DCR) as evaluated by standard response and progression criteria for CLL/SLL., Up to approximately 36 months|Preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity, in terms of Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as assessed by the Investigator. (Phase 2), Measure of Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as evaluated by standard response and progression criteria for CLL/SLL., Up to approximately 36 months|Preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity, in terms of Overall Survival (OS) as assessed by the Investigator. (Phase 2), Measure of Overall Survival (OS) as evaluated by standard response and progression criteria for CLL/SLL., Up to approximately 36 months
This study includes 2 parts: phase 1 (dose escalation) and phase 2 (cohort expansion) in patients with CLL/SLL or NHL who have failed prior standard of care therapies including a BTK inhibitor where one is approved for the indication. NHL indications include lymphoplasmacytoid lymphoma/Waldenström's macroglobulinemia (LPL/WM), mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), marginal zone lymphoma (MZL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma of the activated B-cell subtype (DLBCL-ABC), and follicular lymphoma (FL). In Phase 1b, cohorts of 3 to 6 patients are studied at each dose level, starting with 25 mg vecabrutnib BID in oral capsule form. Following identification of the MTD and/or recommended dose, in Phase 2 only CLL/SLL patients will be enrolled to expansion cohorts to further characterize the clinical activity, safety, and pharmacology of vecabrutinib. Cycle length is 4 weeks.