Actinium 225 Labeled Anti-CEA Antibody (Ac225-DOTA-M5A) for the Treatment of CEA Producing Advanced or Metastatic Cancers
This phase I study tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of Ac225-DOTA-M5A in treating patients with CEA positive colorectal cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced). Ac225-DOTA-M5A is a humanized monoclonal anti-CEA antibody, linked to a radioactive agent called actinium 225. M5A attaches to CEA positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers actinium 225 to kill them.
Advanced Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
DRUG: Actinium Ac 225-DOTA-anti-CEA Monoclonal Antibody M5A|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Incidence of adverse events, The toxicities observed at each dose level will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity (by National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria and nadir or maximum values for the laboratory measures), time of onset (i.e. course number), and attribution to study drug. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose and by course., Up to 6 months|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The MTD is defined as the highest dose tested in which fewer than 33% of patients experienced dose limiting toxicities (DLT) attributable to the study drugs, when at least six patients were treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. The MTD is one dose level below the DLT-level. At least 6 patients will be treated at the MTD., Up to 36 months
Overall survival, From first day of treatment to time of death due to any cause., Assessed up to 6 months|Progression-free survival, From first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause., Assessed up to 6 months|Time to failure, From first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to disease., Assessed up to 6 months|Best overall response, Evaluated with complete response, partial response, progressive disease or stable disease. The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The patient's best response assignment will depend on the achievement of measurement criteria, but confirmation is not necessary., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of actinium Ac 225-DOTA-anti-CEA Monoclonal Antibody M5A (225Ac-DOTA-M5A) humanized anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) antibody when given intravenously and to describe the toxicities at each dose studied.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To begin to evaluate the clinical activity of the agent in metastatic colorectal cancer.

II. To evaluate the organ biodistribution, pharmacokinetics and organ dose estimates of 225Ac-DOTA-M5A.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive Ac225-DOTA-M5A intravenously (IV) over 25 minutes on day 1.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed weekly for 6-10 weeks, and then medical records are reviewed for 6 months.