Clinical Trial of the Safety and Efficacy of the Addition of Ramucirumab to Nab-paclitaxel in Previously Treated Patients With Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The subjects who take part in this clinical research study have advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that has been previously treated with other drugs. If they join this study, they would receive ramucirumab (Cyramza ®) in combination with nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane®). Ramucirumab given with nab-paclitaxel is considered an investigational drug combination to use in this type of cancer because giving these two drugs together has not been approved by any regulatory authority like the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for NSCLC cancer. Ramucirumab works by slowing or stopping the growth of cancer cells. Nab-Paclitaxel works by blocking the ability of cancer cells to break down the internal 'skeleton' that allows them to divide and multiply. With the skeleton still in place, the cells cannot divide and they eventually die.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: ramucirumab|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel
Progression-free Survival (PFS), The duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death. Progression as defined by RECIST v1.1 for target lesions: Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions). For non-target lesions: Progressive Disease (PD): Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Unequivocal progression should not normally trump target lesion status. It must be representative of overall disease status change, not a single lesion increase., Up to 26 months|Worst Grade of Adverse Event Experienced, Percentage of patients that experienced Grade 3-5 adverse events as their highest Grade event, irrespective of relatedness to treatment, per NCI CTCAE v2.0 (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events)., Up to 26 months|Worst Grade of Adverse Event Experienced, at Least Possibly Related to Treatment, Percentage of patients who experienced Grade 2-5 adverse events as their highest Grade event, that were at least possibly related to treatment, per NCI CTCAE v2.0 (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events)., Up to 26 months|Worst Grade of Adverse Event Experienced, at Least Probably Related to Treatment, Percentage of patients who experienced Grade 0-4 adverse events as their highest Grade event, that were at least probably related to treatment, per NCI CTCAE v2.0 (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events)., Up to 26 months|Worst Grade of Adverse Event Experienced, Definitely Related to Treatment, Percentage of patients that experienced Grade 0-2 adverse events as their highest Grade event, that were definitely related to treatment, per NCI CTCAE v2.0 (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Up to 26 months
Best Overall Response, Median percentage of patients who experienced a best response of partial or complete response (PR + CR) / total number of patients (PR + CR + Stable Disease (SD) + Progressive Disease (PD)), per RECIST v1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm; appearance new lesions., Up to 26 months|Overall Survival (OS), The duration of time from the start of treatment to death., Up to 26 months|Median EuroQol Five Dimension Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) Score, The EuroQol Five Dimension questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) score is a descriptive system that comprises five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: level 0=no problems, level 1=slight problems, level 2=moderate problems, level 3=severe problems and level 4= extreme problems. The patient is asked to indicate his/her health state by ticking the box next to the most appropriate statement in each of the five dimensions. This decision results in a 1-digit number that expresses the level selected for that dimension. The digits for the five dimensions can be combined into a 5-digit number that describes the patient's health state.

Data is presented as a health profile table reporting a proportion of reported problems for each level for each dimension and/or dichotomised levels - 'no problems' (i.e. level 1) and 'problems' (i.e. levels 2 to 5), Baseline through up to 26 months
Ramucirumab is a human IgG1 (Immunoglobulin G) monoclonal antibody that targets the extracellular domain of VEGFR-2 (vascular endothelial growth factor receptor). A recent double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial evaluated the addition of ramucirumab to docetaxel compared with docetaxel and placebo in patients with Stage IV squamous and non-squamous NSCLC in the 2nd-line treatment setting. This study demonstrated a superior overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall response rate (ORR) with the combination therapy compared with docetaxel with placebo. This effect was seen across histologic subtypes, in the absence of excess toxicity in patients with squamous cell histology. This finding is intriguing, as prior study of bevacizumab in patients with NSCLC of squamous cell histology was associated with excess pulmonary hemorrhage. This provides the rationale for further investigation of ramucirumab in patients with squamous cell NSCLC.

nab-Paclitaxel is a formulation of paclitaxel complexed with albumin that is readily soluble in saline and allows administration of paclitaxel without the use of lipid-based solvents and the need for corticosteroid and antihistamine premedication. nab-Paclitaxel was approved for the 1st line treatment of NSCLC based on a trial which demonstrated a superior ORR with the addition of nab-paclitaxel to carboplatin compared with carboplatin/paclitaxel in patients with advanced and metastatic NSCLC, as well as prolonged PFS and OS without statistical significance. The subgroup analysis by tumor histology demonstrated a statistically significant advantage for nab-paclitaxel/carboplatin in terms of best overall response rate (41% vs 24%, p\<0.001), and numerically better PFS and OS in squamous NSCLC. \[3\]

This is a single-arm phase II clinical trial, in which patients with previously treated NSCLC will be treated with ramucirumab/nab-paclitaxel until disease progression, unacceptable treatment-related toxicity or withdrawal of consent with the primary endpoint of progression-free survival. A minimum of 40 patients with squamous cell histology will be required for determination of the co-primary endpoint. The investigators hypothesize that the addition of ramucirumab to nab-paclitaxel is well-tolerated and associated with a superior PFS compared with single agent taxane-based therapy.