Efficacy and Safety of Dacomitinib in the Treatment of Skin Squamous Cell Cancer
This is an open label, monocentric, uncontrolled phase II trial with Dacomitinib, a pan-HER inhibitor, in unresectable or metastatic skin SCC.

HER2 expression is common in skin SCC, being reported with high rates, even if in small studies.

Coexpression of EGFR, HER2 and HER3 is present in skin SCCs but not in normal skin and it could be associated with the malignant phenotype. In this frame Dacomitinib could play a role in the increase of the response rate.
Skin Squamous Cell Cancer
DRUG: Dacomitinib
Response rate to Dacomitinib, Response rate (partial response, PR + complete response, CR) to Dacomitinib, 24 months
Compliance to the treatment and safety, Compliance to the treatment and safety, 24 months|Disease control, Disease control (stable disease (SD) + PR + CR), 24 months|PFS and OS, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS), 24 months|Percentage of patients initially not considered for surgery due to difficulty to obtain a curative treatment that undergo surgery after dacomitinib, Percentage of patients initially not considered for surgery due to difficulty to obtain a curative treatment that undergo surgery after dacomitinib, 24 months
Analysis of mutational/gene expression, Translational research regarding the analysis of pERK, Ki67, pSTAT3 p27, pEGFR and other mutational/gene expression analysis to be determined within the study period. Correlation of immunohistochemistry analysis of these markers and response to treatment or to onset of acquired resistance., 24 months
The patients will assume Dacomitinib 30 mg daily for the first 2 weeks. If the highest skin toxicity will be of grade \<2, then the patients will start dacomitinib at 45 mg once daily and they will be clinically assessed every cycle (i.e. every 28 days).

If the highest skin toxicity will be grade \>2, then the patient will interrupt the treatment following the criteria for dose reduction.

Tumor evaluation will be performed at baseline and every other cycle. Response will be assessed according to RECIST 1.1. The patient will continue to assume the study drug until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or any medical condition that will suggest to stop the treatment for patient's safety