Low Dose Chemotherapy With Aspirin in Patients With Breast Cancer After Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
Patients with stage II-III breast cancer who do not achieve a pathologic complete response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy at the time of surgery will be treated with oral low dose continuous cyclophosphamide and methotrexate (CM) in combination with aspirin following surgery and radiotherapy. The primary endpoint is to assess toxicity and safety with secondary endpoints of cytokine correlates and relapse free survival (RFS) at 2 years. The investigators design tests the null hypothesis (H0) that the true primary toxicity event rate will be 5% or less, against an alternative hypothesis (HA) event rate of 25% or more.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide and Methotrexate and Aspirin
Toxicity and Safety, The primary endpoint of the study is toxicity and safety. Serious adverse events, grade 3 and 4 nonhematologic toxicity, and hematologic toxicity requiring removal of the patient from study treatment will be reviewed. A fixed sample size design to test for primary toxicity events will be conducted. Sample size was selected based upon a null hypothesis that the toxicity rate will be 5% or less and that the alternative hypothesis toxicity rate will be 25% or more., 18 months
Biomarker Analysis, Cytokine and LVEF data will be examined using a pre-post analysis implemented using an analysis of covariance model where the pre-value serves as the baseline covariate and the post-value serves as the dependent variable of interest. Pre-post changes for each of these measures will also described in terms of 95% confidence intervals for absolute and relative changes. Other covariates may be included to examine any mediating influences on these changes dependent upon exploratory model building results., 18 months
Patients with stage II-III breast cancer who do not achieve a pathologic complete response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy at the time of surgery will be treated with oral low dose continuous cyclophosphamide and methotrexate (CM) in combination with aspirin following surgery and radiotherapy. The primary endpoint is to assess toxicity and safety with secondary endpoints of cytokine correlates and relapse free survival (RFS) at 2 years. The investigators design tests the null hypothesis (H0) that the true primary toxicity event rate will be 5% or less, against an alternative hypothesis (HA) event rate of 25% or more.