Donor Immune Cell Therapy for Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This study aims to introduce a new technology of donor NK cell infusion. NK cells defend against viruses and cancer cells in vivo whereas this effect declines in patiens with tumors. In this study, NK cells will be separated from donated peripheral blood or umbilical cord blood. Eligible NK cells will be infused to patients with Acute myeloid leukemia (AML). This new therapy will probably induce their sustained remission and reduce recurrences.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: infusion of natural killer cells
hematological response rate, Hematological Complete Remission (HCR): Bone marrow blasts \<5%; absence of blasts with Auer rods; absence of extramedullary disease; absolute neutrophil count \>1.0x10\^9/L; platelet count \>100x10\^9/L., up to 2 years, from treatment begining to death|Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) is measured from the date of first infusion of NK cells to the date of death from any cause; patients not known to have died at last follow up are censored on the date they were last known to be alive., Up to 2 years after beginning treatment
Cumulative incidence of relapse, Relapse was defined as the recurrence of above 5%bone marrow blasts and the reappearance of blasts in the blood or the development of extramedullary disease infiltrates at any site., Up to 2 years after beginning treatment|Disease free survival (DFS), Disease free survival (DFS) is defined as the time from the date of first infusion of NK cells to the date of relapse or death as a result of any cause., Up to 2 years after beginning treatment|Incidence of adverse effects, Toxic effects were graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Toxicity Criteria., Up to 2 years after beginning treatment
Primary end point:

To determine the rate of overall survival at 2 years of Interventional cohort

Secondary end point:

To determine the cumulative incidence of relapse at 2 years. To determine the rate of disease-free survival at 2 years. Describe the safety and toxicity of donor NK cell infusion.

Study Design:

This study is a phase I clinical trial. 15 eligible AML patients will be enrolled sequentially to receive detached NK cells product during induction or consolidation therapy. Refractory or relapsed patients and patients who achieved complete remission (CR) after induction therapy are included. They will receive anthracycline-based chemotherapy according to NCCN guidelines. At the same time, Cultured NK cells will be infused into patients after chemotherapy. Anti-allergic therapy and prophylaxis of graft versus host disease (GVHD) will be given before infusion. Treatment effect will be measured and adverse effect will be treated and documented after intervention.