A Trial of Omeprazole and Low Dose Aspirin to Identify Colorectal Biomarkers of Preventive Efficacy
This trial will obtain biomarker data on the possible preventive effects of omeprazole and low-dose aspirin in colorectal tissue. Persons who have had 5 or more adenomas, 5 or more serrated polyps, or an incompletely removed adenoma or serrated polyp in the colon or rectum are potentially eligible. Before participating in the study, study staff will explain the study and review the consent form. If you are interested and provide consent, study staff will then confirm your eligibility. Once enrolled, participants will take two 20 mg omeprazole tablets and two 81 mg aspirin tablets each day before the first meal each day for 25-45 days.

The study does involve biopsies of the colorectal tissue before and after taking the study medications. The biopsies are samples of tissue, about the size of a grain of rice, that will be taken from the colon or rectum before and after taking the study medications. This is done during a usual, clinical colonoscopy exam and during one more limited exam, called flexible sigmoidoscopy, that is done for the research study. The flexible sigmoidoscopy requires less preparation. Which procedure comes first depends on what fits best with each participant's clinical scenario. Biopsies of both normal mucosa and polyps (if possible) are collected.
Colorectal Neoplasia
DRUG: Omeprazole|DRUG: Aspirin
Identification of biomarkers for omeprazole/aspirin combination treatment in the human colorectum, The ratio of Ki67 proliferation marker to cleaved caspase 3 apoptosis marker, and changes in gene expression by high throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq)., up to 45 days from intervention initiation
Evaluation of gene expression changes, To compare gene expression changes by RNA-Seq observed in the clinical trial with that observed in a well-characterized rodent colon cancer prevention model to evaluate potential for preventive efficacy., up to 45 days from intervention initiation
JAN2025 amendment added Adenomatous polyps meeting criteria for colon polyposis of unknown etiology (\> 20 lifetime adenomas)