Carfilzomib With Bendamustine and Dexamethasone in Multiple Myeloma
This study is designed to define dose-limiting toxicity and determine preliminary evidence of efficacy of carfilzomib (CFZ) in combination with bendamustine and dexamethasone for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM).
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Carfilzomib in Combination With Bendamustine and Dexamethasone, MTD defined as the highest dose at which ≤20% of participants experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), to define the recommended phase II dose. DLT were evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) of the National Cancer Institute version 4.0. An AE was considered a DLT if it occurred in cycle 1, was deemed related to study treatment, and was one of peripheral neuropathy ≥grade 2, any non-hematologic AE ≥ grade 3, neutropenia grade 4 lasting ≥7 days or with fever, thrombocytopenia grade 4 lasting ≥7 days or with bleeding, or any AE requiring a dose reduction during cycle 1 or a delay in the start of cycle 2., 6 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR defined as the number of participants demonstrating complete response or partial response. Complete response defined as complete disappearance of an M-protein and no evidence of MM in the bone marrow. Partial response defined as ≥50% reduction in the level of the serum monoclonal paraprotein, reduction in 24-hour M-protein either by greater than or equal to 90% or to \<200 mg, ≥50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytoma (by radiography or clinical examination), no increase in the number or size of lytic bone lesions., 2 years|Time to Next Treatment (TTNT), The TTNT is measured from the date of initiation of treatment to the start date of the next treatment regimen., Up to 6.5 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of study treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 6.5 Years|Time to Best Response, Time to the best response recorded., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) Rate, The percentage of people who are still alive., Up to 6.5 Years|Number of Adverse Events (AEs), Total number of AEs observed., 30 Days Post Last Dose, Up to approximately 9 months
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a malignant plasma cell disorder resulting in approximately 11,000 deaths in the United States each year. It is estimated that between 60,000-80,000 people are currently under treatment for refractory or relapsed MM. Prognosis and survival have improved over the last 20 years, but the disease is still universally fatal despite efforts to develop new and more effective chemotherapeutic regimens. Therefore, new regimens need to be developed for patients prior to peripheral blood stem cell transplant and for those unable to tolerate the toxicity of transplant.

An IRB-approved long-term retrospective chart review study (IRB-AAAU4389) was conducted to collect data for Outcome Measures relating to long-term analysis (up to 6.5 years).