Pembrolizumab and Pemetrexed for Progressive Chordoma
Primary Objective:

1. To determine objective response rate (ORR) according to RECIST v1.1 of pembrolizumab and high-dose pemetrexed in the treatment of patients with chordoma until disease progression. The OOR will be investigator assessed.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To describe the adverse events associated with administering pembrolizumab and high-dose pemetrexed combination treatment.
2. To determine disease control rate based on imaging and overall survival.
3. To determine median PFS and PFS rates at 6, 9, 12, and 18 months.
4. To evaluate changes in volumetric tumor measurements based on imaging.
5. To determine the effects of combination treatment on quality of life, assessed by the EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire.
6. To assess tumor evolution over time in patients with chordoma based on imaging, and molecular profiling.
7. To assess the pharmacodynamic effects of treatment in blood.

Exploratory Objective:

1. To explore the relationship between molecular phenotype and patient response.
Chordomas|Chordoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed Phase 2
Objective Response Rate (ORR), 1. To determine objective response rate (ORR) according to RECIST v1.1 of pembrolizumab and high-dose pemetrexed in the treatment of patients with chordoma. The OOR will be investigator assessed., Day 1 of study treatment until disease progression up to 2 years
Adverse Events of Combination Therapy, To describe the adverse events associated with administering pembrolizumab and high-dose pemetrexed combination treatment., From time of 1st Treatment to End of Treatment or Diease Progression for approximately 1 year|Median progression-free survival, To determine the median progression-free survival (PFS)., From time of 1st Treatment to End of Treatment or Disease Progression up to 2 years
Disease Control, To determine Disease Contral Rate according to RECIST v1.1, as determined by appropriate imaging modality (CT scan or MRI scan), From time of 1st Treatment to End of Treatment or Disease Progression up to 2 years|PFS at 6 months, To assess the rate of progression free events at six months from start of treatment., From time of 1st Treatment to six months|PFS at 9 months, To assess the rate of progression free survival at 9 months from start of treatment., From time of 1st Treatment to nine months|PFS at 12 months, To assess the rate of progression free survival at 12 months from start of treatment., From time of 1st Treatment to 12 months|PFS at 18 months, To assess the rate of progression free survival at 18 months from start of treatment., From time of 1st Treatment to 18 months|Tumor Volume, To evaluate the percent reduction or increase of tumor volume (length x width x height) compared to volume measured prior to study treatment initiation based on appropriate imaging (CT scan or MRI scan)., From time of 1st Treatment to End of Treatment or Disease Progression up to 5 years|Treatment Effect on Quality of Life, To determine the effects of combination treatment on quality of life, assessed by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire core 30 (EORTC- QCL-30). High scores on the functioning scales indicate better functioning, whereas high symptom scores represent higher levels of symptom burden., From time of 1st Treatment to End of Treatment or Disease Progression up to 2 years|Tumor genome sequence analysis of available tumor samples, To assess genetic mutations and copy number alterations in tumor before and after study treatment from patients who undergo tumor or surgery or biopsies for clinical management., From time of 1st Treatment to End of Treatment or Disease Progression up to 5 years|Tumor transcriptome sequence analysis of available tumor samples, To assess gene expression in tumor before and after study treatment from patients who undergo tumor or surgery or biopsies for clinical management, From time of 1st Treatment to End of Treatment or Disease Progression up to 5 years|Circulating tumor DNA in blood, To assess circulating chordoma tumor DNA in blood before and after study treatment., From time of 1st Treatment to End of Treatment or Disease Progression up to 5 years
This purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness and safety of the research study drug combination of pembrolizumab and high-dose pemetrexed. Both drugs are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for many different types of cancer but is considered investigational because it is not approved by the FDA for use in patients with a rare type of cancer called chordoma. Pembrolizumab (Keytruda) is approved for use in more than ten types of cancer. Pemetrexed (Alimta) is approved for use in patients with certain types of lung cancer called non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and malignant pleural mesothelioma. Pemetrexed is also approved for use with pembrolizumab and cisplatin or carboplatin for certain non-squamous NSCLC. The approved dose of pemetrexed is 500 mg/m2, but this study is evaluating a higher dose (900 mg/m2) in effort to deliver more drug to chordoma. Outcome measures will be monitored until disease progression, through study completion (estimated average of 2 years), or withdrawal from study.

Chordoma tumors can occur anywhere along the spine, from the head to the tailbone, and surgery and radiation therapy are currently used as treatment for chordoma. There are no drugs at this time that are approved for treating this cancer type. This study is being done to determine how the combination treatment regimen of pembrolizumab and high-dose pemetrexed might affect the growth of chordoma and to learn more about this regimen's safety in patients with chordoma.