Epidural Anesthesia-analgesia and Long-term Outcome
Surgical resection is one of the most important treatments for resectable cancer; on the other hand, cancer recurrence and/or metastasis are the major reasons of treatment failure. The development of recurrence/metastasis after cancer surgery mostly depends on the balance between the immunity of human body and the capability of implantation, proliferation and neovascularization of the residual cancer. Preclinical and retrospective clinical studies suggest that anaesthetic management may affect the long-term outcomes after cancer surgery. The investigators hypothesize that use of epidural anesthesia-analgesia may improve long-term survival in elderly patients after major surgery for cancer.
Elderly|Malignant Tumor|Surgical Resection|Epidural Anesthesia|Long-term Outcome
DRUG: Combined epidural-general anesthesia|DRUG: General anesthesia
Overall survival after surgery., Time from surgery to the date of all-cause death., Up to median 5 years after surgery.
Cancer-specific survival after surgery., Time from surgery to the date of cancer-specific death. Patients who die from other causes will be censored at the time of death., Up to median 5 years after surgery.|Recurrence-free survival after surgery., Time from surgery to the date of cancer recurrence/metastasis or all-cause death, whichever come first., Up to median 5 years after surgery.|Event-free survival after surgery., Time from surgery to the first date of cancer recurrence/metastasis, new onset cancer, new serious non-cancer disease, or death from any cause., Up to median 5 years after surgery.
Overall survival after surgery (cancer patients)., Time from surgery to the date of all-cause death., Up to median 5 years after surgery.|Cancer-specific survival after surgery (cancer patients)., Time from surgery to the date of cancer-specific death. Patients who die from other causes will be censored at the time of death., Up to median 5 years after surgery.|Recurrence-free survival after surgery (cancer patients)., Time from surgery to the date of cancer recurrence/metastasis or all-cause death, whichever come first., Up to median 5 years after surgery.|Event-free survival after surgery (cancer patients)., Time from surgery to the first date of cancer recurrence/metastasis, new onset cancer, new serious non-cancer disease, or death from any cause., Up to median 5 years after surgery.|Cognitive function (3-year survivors)., Cognitive function is assessed with the modified Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status (TICS-m; a 12-item questionnaire that assesses global cognitive function by verbal communication via telephone. The score ranges from 0 to 50, with higher score indicating better function)., At the end of the 3rd year after surgery.|Quality of life (3-year survivors)., Quality of life is assessed with the World Health Organization Quality of Life-brief version (WHOQOL-BREF; a 24-item questionnaire that assesses the quality of life in physical, psychological, social relationship and environmental domains. The score ranges from 0 to 100 for each domain, with higher score indicating better function)., At the end of the 3rd year after surgery.
Surgical resection is the main treatment for potentially curable solid organ cancer. However, it is unavoidable that some cancer cells are disseminated into the circulatory or lymphatic system during surgery. And quite a number of patients develop cancer recurrence and/or metastasis after surgery, which are associated with poor long-term outcomes. The development of cancer recurrence and/or metastasis after surgery is mostly dependent on the balance between the anti-tumor immune function of the human body and the ability of implantation, proliferation and neovascularization of the residual cancer cells.

Multiple surgical factors may influence the balance between the anti-cancer immune function and cancer recurrence. For example, the presence of the primary cancer inhibits angiogenesis, whereas cancer resection eliminates this safeguard against angiogenesis; surgical manipulation releases cancer cells into the circulation; surgery-related stress response inhibits natural killer (NK) cell activity and can promote the development of cancer metastasis; local and systemic release of growth factors during surgery may also promote cancer recurrence both locally and at distant sites.

Available studies showed that general anaesthesia/anesthetics may influence the cellular immune function and long-term outcomes. For example, it was found that ketamine and thiopental, but not propofol, suppressed NK cell activity; all three drugs caused a significant reduction in NK cell number; isoflurane and halothane inhibit interferon (IFN) stimulation of NK cell cytotoxicity; nitrous oxide interferes with DNA, purine, and thymidylate synthesis and depresses neutrophil chemotaxis; opioids have been reported to suppress cell-mediated and humoral immunity.

Considering the potential harmful effects of general anesthesia/anesthetics, there is an increasing interest on the effect of regional anaesthesia. Retrospective studies investigating the relationship between epidural anesthesia and outcome after cancer surgery gave different results. In a meta-analysis, regional anesthesia is associated with improved survival (hazard ratio \[HR\] 0.84, 95% confidence interval \[CI\] 0.74-0.96, P = 0.013), but not cancer recurrence/metastasis (HR 0.88, 95% Cl 0.64-1.22, P = 0.457). The investigators hypothesize that combined use of epidural anesthesia may produce favorable effects on the long-term survival in elderly patients undergoing major cancer surgery.