Testing the Addition of an Investigational Drug, Xevinapant, to Usual Radiation Therapy Plus Cisplatin/Carboplatin for Patients With Head and Neck Cancer
This phase II trial compares the effect of usual radiation therapy with cisplatin/carboplatin (chemoradiation) to the addition of xevinapant with chemoradiation in patients with head and neck cancer. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, particles, or radioactive seeds to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Cisplatin is in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. It works by killing, stopping or slowing the growth of cancer cells. Carboplatin is in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. It works in a way similar to the anticancer drug cisplatin, but may be better tolerated than cisplatin. Carboplatin works by killing, stopping or slowing the growth of cancer cells. Xevinapant is a first-in-class antagonist of inhibitor of apoptosis (programmed cell death) proteins (IAPs), which leads to tumor cell death and enhances tumor cell sensitivity to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Giving xevinapant with chemoradiation may be more effective in preventing head and neck cancer from growing or spreading than chemoradiation alone.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage III Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Laryngeal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|RADIATION: Image Guided Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Xevinapant
Disease free survival (DFS), Assuming an exponential distribution for DFS, this hypothesis corresponds to an increase in the 2-year DFS rate from 55% (assumed rate in the control arm) to 70%. Full information required will be a total of 100 DFS events. An intention to treat analysis including all randomized patients will be used. Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used to estimate the DFS distributions. A log-rank test with a one-sided 10% type I error will be used for the comparison between the arms., From the date of randomization to the date of recurrence, second primary tumor from the head and neck region, or death, assessed at 2 years
Overall survival (OS), Assuming a 2-year OS rate of 69% in the control arm, maintaining a one-sided significance level of 10%, there is 80% power to detect a hazard ratio of 1.66, for the comparison of control arm versus experimental arm. Assuming an exponential distribution for OS, this hypothesis corresponds to an increase in the 2-year OS rate from 69% to 80%. Full information will be a total of 72 OS events., From the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause, assessed at 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, All treated patients will be evaluated for toxicity (using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) regardless of eligibility. Toxicity will be examined by arm and compared using the Fisher's exact test., Up to 30 days post completion of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether adding xevinapant to post-operative adjuvant treatment with cisplatin + radiation followed by xevinapant monotherapy in patients with surgically resected head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) who have extra-nodal extension (ENE) and/or positive margins will improve the disease-free survival (DFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the following endpoints: Overall Survival (OS), rates of distant metastasis (DM), local regional control (LRR).

II. To assess safety and tolerability of treatment intensification.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cisplatin or carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes once a week (QW) for 6 doses with concurrent intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) five days a week for 30-33 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET)-CT, and/or chest x-ray during screening and follow-up. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection during follow-up.

ARM B: Patients receive cisplatin or carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes QW for 6 doses with concurrent IMRT and IGRT five days a week for 30-33 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive xevinapant orally (PO) on days 1-14 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT, MRI, PET-CT, and/or chest x-ray during screening and follow-up. Patients may also undergo blood sample collection during follow-up.

Upon completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 6 months if patient is \< 3 years from randomization and every 12 months if patient is 3-5 years from randomization.