TILs & Low-Dose IL-2 Therapy Following Cyclophosphamide and Fludarabine in Pleural Mesothelioma Patients
This is a phase I and II clinical study for patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (a type of cancer affecting the lining of the lung). Patients will receive an infusion (given by vein) of autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). TILs are a type of white blood cells that recognizes tumor cells and enter them which causes the tumor cells to break down.

Prior to the cell infusion, patients will receive a two drugs cyclophosphamide and fludarabine to prepare the body to receive the TILs. After cell infusion, patients will receive low-dose interleukin-2 therapy. This study will see how safe and useful this regimen is in treating malignant pleural mesothelioma.
Pleural Mesothelioma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs)|BIOLOGICAL: Interleukin-2
Total number of adverse events for each event reported and the severity and attribution to study therapy of each event, To determine the feasibility and safety of chemotherapy in combination with infusion of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes followed by low-dose interleukin-2 in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma., 5 years
Percentage of patients with a clinical response to the study treatment, 5 years
The investigational infusion product consists of autologous, in vitro-expanded tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). The target number of cells for infusion is between 1 x 1010 and 1.6 x 1011. The cells are given intravenously over a 20-30 minute infusion.

Prior to infusion of TILs, patients will receive a preparative regimen of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg/day x 2 days intravenously) and fludarabine (25 mg/m2/day x 5 days intravenously).

After the cell infusion, patients will receive low-dose interleukin-2 (IL-2) therapy (125,000 IU/kg/day subcutaneously for 2 weeks with a 2 day break between each week. The goal for the total number of doses is 9-10).

Because confusion is a possible side effect of IL-2 administration, a Durable Power of Attorney will be signed by the patient to identify a surrogate to make decisions if a patient becomes unable to make decisions.