Administration of Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy in the General Ward
Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecologic malignancy. The majority of patients get diagnosed with advanced disease with peritoneal dissemination.It has been demonstrated that the addition of Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy (HIPEC) to interval debulking surgery can improve the prognosis. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) treatment guideline has recommended HIPEC as a first-line treatment for patients with advanced ovarian cancer. However, the guideline recommended the "Dutch model" of HIPEC, which is limited for routinely being performed in China. So we propose a HIPEC treatment modality, the bedside closed HIPEC in the general ward (C-HIPEC), which is suitable for the clinical characteristics of China. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety of this model as a way to lay the foundation for subsequent efficacy evaluation and clinical promotion.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
PROCEDURE: China Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy(C-HIPEC)
The incidence of adverse events of grade 3-5, The adverse events would be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 5.0). The types and incidence of AEs will be recorded to evaluate the safety of C-HIPEC., up to 3 weeks after C-HIPEC.
Time to progress (TTP), Disease progression is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), version 1.1, or on the basis of an increase from baseline in the CA-125 level, whichever one of these two criteria was met first. The CA-125 will be tested before each chemotherapy session, and the radiographic examination will be done every 3 months since the end of IV chemotherapy., from the end of IV chemotherapy to 1 year after C-HIPEC or relapse|The Time to the First Subsequent Therapy，TTFST, The Time to the First Subsequent Therapy, C-HIPEC to the first subsequent IV chemotherapy|Quality of life, QLQ-C30, Quality of life is assessed by health-related quality-of-life questionnaires-the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30)., 1) within 2 weeks before C-HIPEC; 2) 1 week after C-HIPEC; 3) before each cycle of IV chemotherapy (each cycle is 28 days)
The Dutch Model is limited for the following reasons: 1) The HIPEC treatment requires to be done in the operating room, which means the operation time would be lengthened. 2) High rate of exposure to chemotherapeutic drugs among healthcare workers. 3) It has significant safety concerns because it does not take into account racial differences in drug toxicity. This study is an investigator-initiated prospective multicenter feasibility study with a non-inferiority design, so as to provide evidence-based medical evidence for the use of the C-HIPEC model as an alternative to the "Dutch model" in clinical practice in China.