Ramucirumab Plus TAS-102 in Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Gastric Adenocarcinoma or the Gastroesophageal Junction
The objective of this study is to determine whether a combination of ramucirumab, beyond progression after a SOC 2nd line ramucirumab based pre-treatment (Ram beyond progression) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic adenocarcinoma, plus TAS-102 shows good tolerability without safety issues regarding the serious adverse event rate of any cause, and whether the combination shows positive signals regarding efficacy in the secondary endpoints (e.g. prolongation of progression-free survival of TAS-102 plus ramucirumab compared with TAS-102 monotherapy - historical data according to TAGS trial).
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of the Gastroesophageal Junction
DRUG: Ramucirumab|DRUG: TAS 102
Tolerability and toxicity: rate of serious adverse events (SAEs) of any cause, The primary endpoint of the study is tolerability and toxicity, defined by the rate of serious adverse events (SAEs) of any cause according to CTCAE v5.0, Frist Treatment until 30 days after end of treatment, up to 5 months
Rate of treatment-related AEs and SAE, Rate of treatment-related AEs and SAEs according to CTCAE v5.0, Frist Treatment until 30 days after end of treatment, up to 5 months|Adverse events for neutropenia, Rate of grade 3 or worse adverse events for neutropenia, Frist Treatment until 30 days after end of treatment, up to 5 months|Adverse events for anemia, Rate of grade 3 or worse adverse events for anemia, Frist Treatment until 30 days after end of treatment, up to 5 months|Adverse events for leucopenia, Rate of grade 3 or worse adverse events for leucopenia, Frist Treatment until 30 days after end of treatment, up to 5 months|Adverse events for thrombocytopenia, Rate of grade 3 or worse adverse events for thrombocytopenia, Frist Treatment until 30 days after end of treatment, up to 5 months|Abnormal laboratory parameters, Frequency of abnormal laboratory parameters, Frist Treatment until 30 days after end of treatment, up to 5 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) according to RECIST 1.1, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented evidence of disease progression or death. If no information will be available for the evaluation of progression, patients will be censored at the timepoint of last tumor assessment., Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented evidence of disease progression or death; up to 16 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate is defined as proportion of patients with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Tumor response will be evaluated using RECIST 1.1 criteria., defined as the time from enrollment up to 16 months.|Overall survival, Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from enrollment to the date of death from any cause.; up to 16 months.
This is an interventional, prospective, non-randomized, open-label, multicenter single-arm pilot study of ramucirumab plus TAS-102 in patients with advanced or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the stomach or the gastroesophageal junction, after treatment failure on a ramucirumab based therapy.

A total number of 20 patients will be enrolled. Potential study participants will be assessed for eligibility during one or several screening visits. The patient has to provide a signed informed consent form prior to any study-specific screening evaluations. Once the patient provides a signed informed consent form and eligibility is confirmed (all inclusion/exclusion criteria have been verified), the patient can be enrolled.

All screening procedures must be completed during the 14-day screening period. All patients must have had disease status confirmed as per CT or MRI scan of the tumor(s) within ≤ 4 weeks prior to the first dose. Other screening assessments include blood sampling, performance status (ECOG) and ECG according to clinical routine. Study treatment will be continued until progression or intolerable toxicity, but for a maximum of 4 months. Further treatment after progression will be at the investigator's discretion.

Tumor assessment will be performed according to clinical routine at screening and every 8 weeks (±7 days) during the treatment phase of the study and every 12 weeks (±14 days) during follow-up.

The expected duration of the active study phase (FPI - LPO) is 18 months. The active phase per individual patient is approximately 6 months.