Intrapleural Measles Virus Therapy in Patients With Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
This phase I clinical trial investigates the side effects and the best dose of local (intrapleural measles virus therapy in treating patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM). The investigators anticipate that the intrapleural of the vaccine strain measles virus will enable the virus to specifically infect and kill cancer cells and spare, without damaging normal cells. Furthermore, the investigators expect the measles virus to trigger an anti-tumor immune response which will result in additional destruction of the tumor by immune cells
Recurrent Malignant Mesothelioma|Stage IA Malignant Mesothelioma|Stage IB Malignant Mesothelioma|Stage II Malignant Mesothelioma|Stage III Malignant Mesothelioma|Stage IV Malignant Mesothelioma
BIOLOGICAL: oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: single photon emission computed tomography|PROCEDURE: computed tomography
Adverse event (AE) profile, The number and severity of toxicity incidents will indicate the level of tolerance for MV-NIS in the therapy of MPM. Non-hematologic toxicities will be evaluated via the CTCAE v4.0 standard toxicity grading. Hematologic toxicity measures such as anemia, neutropenia and thrombocytopenia will be assessed using continuous variables as the outcome measures (nadir and percent change from baseline values) as well as categorization via CTCAE v4.0 standard toxicity grading. Frequency distributions and other descriptive measures will form the basis of the analysis of these variables., 90 Days
Describe the safety of the intrapleural administration of MV-NIS in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma for all cycles out to 90 days., The number and severity of adverse events (AE) over the course of up to 6 cycles of MV-NIS therapy will indicate the level of tolerance for MV-NIS in the therapy of MPM. AE will be evaluated similar to the primary outcome via the CTCAE v4.0 standard toxicity grading and frequency distributions and other descriptive measures will form the basis of the analysis of these variables., 90 Days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for the intrapleural administration of a modified vaccine strain measles virus (MV) genetically engineered to produce human thyroidal sodium iodine symporter (NIS) (MV-NIS \[oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter\])in patients with MPM.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

Safety and toxicity of the repeated (up to 6 cycles) intrapleural administration of MV-NIS in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Time course of viral infection, dissemination and elimination by non-invasive measurements of NIS gene expression using radioactive iodine and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/ computed tomography (CT) imaging with.

II. Viremia, viral replication, and viral shedding following intrapleural administration.

III. Changes in humoral and cellular anti-MV immunity following the intrapleural administration of MV-NIS.

IV. Antitumor efficacy of this approach by serial measurements of radioiodine uptake by SPECT/CT, radiographic response, and time to disease progression.

V. Changes in both local and systemic innate and adaptive anti-tumor immunity following the intrapleural administration of MV-NIS.

VI. Effect of MV-NIS administration on the eukaryotic initiation factor (eIF) 4F translation complex in mesothelioma cells.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive the oncolytic measles virus encoding thyroidal sodium iodide symporter (MV-NIS) intrapleurally. In the absence of unacceptable side effects or disease progression treatment can be repeated every 28 days for up to 6 courses.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 to 6 months for up to 5 years.