Sunitinib Malate or Sorafenib Tosylate in Treating Patients With Kidney Cancer That Was Removed By Surgery
This randomized phase III trial studies sunitinib malate to see how well it works compared to sorafenib tosylate or placebo in treating patients with kidney cancer that has been removed by surgery. Sunitinib malate and sorafenib tosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving sunitinib malate or sorafenib tosylate after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery. It is not yet known whether sunitinib malate is more effective than sorafenib tosylate or placebo in treating kidney cancer.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage II Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate|DRUG: Sunitinib Malate
Disease-free Survival (DFS), Disease-free survival (DFS) is defined as time from randomization to recurrence, development of second primary cancer (except localized breast or prostate cancer or nonmelanoma skin cancer), or death from any cause. Patients who were alive without recurrence or qualifying second primary cancer were censored at the date of last disease evaluation., Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry; then annually if patient is 5 - 10 years from study entry
5-year Overall Survival Rate, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Patients without a date of death were censored at the date of last contact. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate 5-year survival rate., Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry|Proportion of Patients With Cardiac Events, Cardiac event is defined as left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) below the institutional lower limit of normal, where the decrease was \>15% absolute percentage points from baseline within 6 months., Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry|5-year Disease-free Survival (DFS) Rate Among Patients With Clear Cell Histology, Disease-free survival (DFS) is defined as time from randomization to recurrence, development of second primary cancer (except localized breast or prostate cancer or nonmelanoma skin cancer), or death from any cause. Patients who were alive without recurrence or qualifying second primary cancer were censored at the date of last disease evaluation. 5-year DFS rate is the proportion of patients who are alive and disease-free at 5 years based on the Kaplan-Meier estimate., Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry; then annually if patient is 5 - 10 years from study entry
The Association Between Angiogenesis Markers and Disease-free Survival, Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry; then annually if patient is 5 - 10 years from study entry|The Association Between Disease-free Survival and the Frequency of Oncogene as Well as Tumor Suppressor Gene Mutations, Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry; then annually if patient is 5 - 10 years from study entry|The Association Between Tumor and Genetic Polymorphisms and Disease-free Survival, Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry; then annually if patient is 5 - 10 years from study entry|The Association Between Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Methylation Profiles and Disease-free Survival, Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry; then annually if patient is 5 - 10 years from study entry|The Relationship of Polymorphisms in Drug Metabolizing Enzymes With Steady State Concentrations of Sorafenib and Sunitinib in Selected Patients, Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry; then annually if patient is 5 - 10 years from study entry|The Effect of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) Targeted Therapy on Circulating Endothelial Cells and Circulating Endothelial Progenitors, Assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months if patient is 2 - 5 years from study entry; then annually if patient is 5 - 10 years from study entry|Patient-reported Fatigue Using Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) - Fatigue Scale, Assessed at baseline, 10 weeks and 22 weeks|Patient-reported Fatigue Using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue Short Form, PROMIS Fatigue short form is a newly developed state-of-the-science PROMIS measure for fatigue, Assessed at baseline, 10 weeks and 22 weeks|The Association Between Scan Frequency and Development of Congestive Heart Failure, Assessed at 3, 6 and 12 months|Frequency of Clinically Significant Congestive Heart Failure (CHF) Grade 3 or Higher Using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Assessed every 6 weeks while on treatment and for 30 days after the end of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate an improvement in disease-free survival in locally advanced renal cell carcinoma patients randomly assigned to adjuvant sunitinib (sunitinib malate) (Arm A) or sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) (Arm B) versus placebo (Arm C) after radical or partial nephrectomy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare overall survival of patients randomized to each of the two regimens with placebo.

II. To further define the toxicity of prolonged administration of sunitinib or sorafenib in this patient population.

III. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics and associations: novel approaches to assess angiogenesis markers in tissue, blood and urine as predictors of disease-free survival and of therapeutic benefit.

IV. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics and associations: the frequency of oncogene and tumor suppressor gene mutations as predictors of disease-free survival and therapeutic benefit.

V. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics and associations: tumor and genetic polymorphisms as predictors of disease-free survival and therapeutic benefit.

VI. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics and associations: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation profiles as predictors of outcome and of therapeutic benefit.

VII. To prospectively collect tumor and biological specimens to assess their characteristics and associations: The relationship of polymorphisms in drug metabolizing enzymes with steady state concentrations of sorafenib and sunitinib in selected patients.

VIII. To study the effect of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) targeted therapy on circulating endothelial cells and circulating endothelial progenitors.

IX. To prospectively assess patient-reported fatigue in order to compare the magnitude and trajectory of fatigue among renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients randomized to adjuvant sunitinib (Arm A) or sorafenib (Arm B) to placebo (Arm C). (Quality of life objectives) X. To evaluate the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue-Short Form (SF)1, a newly developed state-of-the-science PROMIS measure for fatigue and to calibrate the PROMIS Fatigue-SF1 with the established, validated FACIT-Fatigue scale. (Quality of life objectives)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM A: Beginning 4-12 weeks following radical or partial nephrectomy, patients receive sunitinib malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 4 weeks and placebo sorafenib tosylate PO QD or twice daily (BID) for 6 weeks.

ARM B: Beginning 4-12 weeks following radical or partial nephrectomy, patients receive sorafenib tosylate PO QD or BID for 6 weeks and placebo sunitinib malate PO QD for 4 weeks followed.

ARM C: Beginning 4-12 weeks following radical or partial nephrectomy, patients receive placebo sorafenib tosylate as in Arm A and placebo sunitinib malate as in Arm B.

In all arms, treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 9 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then every 12 months for 5 years.