I am Protecting my Child From the Sun Program
This study aimed to examine the effect of the "I Am Protecting My Child from the Sun" program, based on social cognitive theory, on parents' sun-protection product use and sun avoidance behaviors. The "I Am Protecting My Child from the Sun" program, based on Social Cognitive Theory, and the sending of short reminder messages had positive effects on the parents' behaviors related to protecting themselves and their children from the sun.
Skin Neoplasms|Parents|Behavior and Behavior Mechanisms|Child Behavior|Health Behavior
BEHAVIORAL: I Am Protecting My Child from the Sun|BEHAVIORAL: SMS for sun protection
Parental Sun Protection Scales, The Self-Efficacy of the Use of Sunscreen Products consists of 5 items, Norms/Attitudes for the Use of Sunscreen Products consists of 6 items, Expectancies for the Use of Sunscreen Products consists of 6 items and Impediments to the Use of Sunscreen Products consists of 3 items in products; The Self - Efficacy of Sun Avoidance consists of 5 items, Norms/Attitudes for Sun Avoidance consists of 4 items, Tanning Expectancies consists of 4 items and Expectancies for Sun Avoidance consists of 5 items in Parental Sun Protection Scales. To calculate the scores of the scale, the items are numbered from 1 to 5. Each subscale will be evaluated within itself in the scales and it is expected that the scales of Impediments to the Use of Sunscreen Products and Tanning Expectancies scales have low scores and the other scales have high scores., 9 months|Sun Protection Applications of Parents for Themselves and Child's, The questionnaire is prepared according to the literature and consists of Sun Protection Applications of Parents for Themselves and Sun Protection Applications of Parents for Child's sections and five questions. It questions the sun protection practices for sunscreen, long-sleeved clothing, hat, sunglasses and shade. Answers to questions range from "never", " sometimes" and "always"., 9 months
Skin Cancer and Sun Knowledge Scale, The Skin Cancer and Sun Knowledge Scale consists of 25 items and evaluates information about five fields: the indications of sun protection, suntanning, skin cancer risk factors, prevention of skin cancer, and skin cancer. The items consist of 15 correct-incorrect and 10 multiple-choice questions. For each item, correct answers are symbolized by (1) and incorrect by (0). Total points are 0-25 on the scale. The higher the score obtained, the higher the knowledge level., 9 months|Skin Cancer Risk Perception, In the Skin Cancer Risk Perception questionnaire, there is a question that questions parents' risk of developing skin cancer, and two questions that question the possibility of developing skin cancer over the next 10 years and their lives. Parents' skin cancer risk perception was grouped between "very low" and "very high" and evaluated between 1 and 10 points, respectively. The increase in the score obtained is interpreted as high risk perception., 9 months|Parental Competence Scale, Parental Competence Scale consists of 11 items and one dimension to evaluate parents' parenting skills. The lowest 11 points and the highest 77 points can be obtained from the scale., 9 months|Skin Self-Examination, Skin self-examination practices were obtained by asking., 9 months
This study aimed to examine the effect of the "I Am Protecting My Child from the Sun" program, based on social cognitive theory, on parents' sun-protection product use and sun avoidance behaviors. Organized as a randomized controlled experimental study conducted on three groups with a pre- and post-test follow-up design, the study was carried out in Manavgat between April 2018 and October 2018 and included the participation of 185 parents, of which 63 were in the education group, 62 were in the education+SMS group, and 60 were in the control group. The parents in the intervention group were administered the "I Am Protecting My Child from the Sun" program for a period of six weeks, while the education+SMS group, in addition to the program, also received a total of 25 short text messages twice a week. Data were collected using the Parent Information Form, Skin Cancer Risk Perception Form, Skin Cancer and Sun Knowledge Scale, Parental Self-Efficacy Scale, Parental Sun Protection Scales, and Parent Behaviors Regarding Protecting Themselves and Their Children from The Sun Question Form.