Assessment of Left-sided Cardiac Sparing Through the Use of 3-dimensional Surface Matching-based Deep Inspiration Breath Hold and Active Breathing Control
The standard treatment for breast cancer is surgery followed by adjuvant breast radiation therapy in most cases. For left sided breast cancers, the heart dose delivered by the radiation treatment is often of particular concern. In order to spare the heart, different strategies are currently available, including active breathing control (ABC) and voluntary deep in inspiration breath hold (DIBH) (both strategies are currently being used at our centre). To perform accurate heart-sparing treatments, it is important to ensure that patients are positioned consistently. One available approach is through surface imaging which tracks the position of a portion of the skin surface, known as the AlignRT system (VisionRT Ltd, London, UK).
Left-Sided Breast Cancer
DEVICE: AlignRT system (VisionRT Ltd., London, UK)
Reproducibility of ABC or vDIBH set-up as measured by Align RT., Reproducibility of set-up will be evaluated by determining discrepancies in patient's surface between treatment and CT simulation which will be acquired with the Align RT system using multiple measures along with daily portal images during treatment and weekly CBCTs., 2 years|Mean heart dose as determined using Align RT., Estimate the change in mean heart dose for each breath-hold/heart sparing strategy by:

i. Converting differences in heart position on 2D portal images acquired during treatment to 3D volumes on Pinnacle plans.

ii. Using the CBCT images (acquired weekly), to recalculate dose to heart based on the patient's position and anatomy that day., 2 years
The impact of Align RT with vDIBH as compared to vDIBH without AlignRT on quality of life as assessed by the EORTC core QoL questionnaire., QoL will be assessed using the EORTC core QoL questionnaire (QLQ-C30) which is a well-validated and widely used QoL questionnaire available in multiple languages (12,13). QLQ-C30 is composed of 30 questions that represent 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, and pain), and a global health / QoL scale. The questionnaire will be completed by patients at time of radiation simulation as baseline, at completion of RT (during routine review) and at the 6-8 week follow-up., 2 years
The standard treatment for breast cancer is surgery followed by adjuvant breast radiation therapy in most cases. For left sided breast cancers, the heart dose delivered by the radiation treatment is often of particular concern. In order to spare the heart, different strategies are currently available, including active breathing control (ABC) and voluntary deep in inspiration breath hold (DIBH) (both strategies are currently being used at our centre). To perform accurate heart-sparing treatments, it is important to ensure that patients are positioned consistently. One available approach is through surface imaging which tracks the position of a portion of the skin surface, known as the AlignRT system (VisionRT Ltd, London, UK).