Cetuximab in Neoadjuvant Treatment of Non-Resectable Colorectal Liver Metastases (CELIM)
General Objectives:

* To test the feasibility of neoadjuvant treatment with cetuximab/chemotherapy followed by liver resection
* To determine the optimal combination (cetuximab/FOLFOX versus cetuximab/FOLFIRI) for further trials in preoperative chemotherapy
Colorectal Cancer|Liver Metastases
DRUG: Cetuximab|PROCEDURE: Liver resection|DRUG: Cetuximab and FOLFIRI|DRUG: Cetuximab and FOLFOX
Tumor response, defined as partial and complete response according to RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) - criteria in the intention-to-treat [ITT-] population
Rate of R0 liver resection (ITT- population)|Progression free survival (ITT- population)|Disease free survival after resection (ITT- population)|Overall survival (ITT- population)|Safety (all patients that received any study drug)|Molecular predictive markers for response and toxicity
Patients with liver metastasis will be screened for this study. Eligible patients will complete the pretreatment evaluation including an abdominal CT scan that will be presented to the local surgeon and the radiologist for proving of resectability of hepatic lesions. Additionally, CT scans will be reviewed by three reference surgeons. In case of non-resectability, as defined above, CT- or ultrasound- guided biopsy of one of the liver metastases will be performed, unless biopsy material is available from prior biopsy of one of the liver metastases.

Instead of an ultrasound-guided biopsy, a CT-guided biopsy may be performed.

Formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded metastatic tissue will be sent to reference laboratory (Prof. Störkel, Wuppertal) for immunohistochemical analysis of EGFR- expression.

Additionally tissue will be stored in "RNA later" for gene expression analysis if agreed by the patient.

Additionally, the primary tumor will be collected and sent to the reference laboratory for analysis of EGFR- expression (if agreement of the patient exists).

Patients will be randomized to a combination of:

Cetuximab/FOLFIRI (irinotecan/5-FU/FA) or Cetuximab/FOLFOX6 (oxaliplatin/5-FU/FA)

All patients receive a four month treatment (eight cycles) of the allocated treatment.

Resection is planned after completion of neoadjuvant treatment and should be performed between 4 and 6 weeks after the last dose of chemotherapy. Probes of the resected material (in liquid nitrogen and paraffin embedded material will be collected).

If a resection is not possible after eight administrations of chemotherapy, chemotherapy will be continued until tumor progression (maximal duration of treatment 2 years) and the patient will be evaluated for a potential resection every two months.

After resection, postoperative treatment is planned for 3 months (6 cycles). Treatment start is planned between 4 and 8 weeks after the operation.