Trial of Atezolizumab, Bevacizumab, and Tiragolumab in Patients With Microsatellite Stable, Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
The goal of this study is to learn if a new combination treatment is effective for patients with microsatellite stable, advanced colorectal cancer. The study treatment combines 3 drugs: atezolizumab, bevacizumab, and tiragolumab. The main questions the study aims to answer are:

1. Does the study treatment effectively treat colorectal cancer?
2. Is the study treatment safe for patients with colorectal cancer?
3. How does the study treatment effect the immune system in patients with colorectal cancer?

Participants in this study will receive the study treatment and undergo checkups, laboratory tests, and imaging tests for monitoring. Some participants will also undergo tumor biopsies.
Microsatellite Stable (MSS) Colorectal Cancer (CRC)|Metastatic Colorectal Cancer (CRC)|Colorectal Cancer Stage IV
PROCEDURE: Pre-Treatment Biopsy|PROCEDURE: On-Treatment Biopsy|DRUG: Tiragolumab|DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The primary outcome of this trial is objective response rate (ORR), defined as the proportion of patients who achieve a complete or partial response to treatment according to RECIST v1.1 criteria., From time of study start to time of best response, up to 24 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) measures the length of time from treatment start to disease progression or death, whichever comes first., From time of study start until disease progression or death, whichever comes first; up to 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) measures the duration of time from treatment start until death from any cause., From time of study start until death by any cause, up to 24 months|Safety measured by adverse events, Safety will be monitored by the reporting of types and grades of adverse events associated with the treatment regimen., From time of study start until time of study end, up to 24 months|Impact of Liver Metastases on Treatment Response- ORR, Objective response rate (ORR) will be assessed according to the presence or absence of liver metastases., From time of study start to time of best response (ORR), up to 24 months|Impact of Liver Metastases on Treatment Response- PFS, Progression free survival (PFS) will be assessed according to the presence or absence of liver metastases., From time of study start until disease progression or death, whichever comes first; up to 24 months|Impact of Liver Metastases on Treatment Response- OS, Overall survival (OS) will be assessed according to the presence or absence of liver metastases., From time of study start until death by any cause, up to 24 months
Disease Control Rate (DCR), The disease control rate (DCR) is defined as the proportion of patients who achieve stable disease, partial response, or complete response to study treatment., From time of study start to time of best response, up to 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR) is the length of time from treatment response to disease progression or death among those with a partial response or a complete response to therapy., From time of response to treatment through time of progression or death, up to 24 months|Immune Correlates of Response, The response of the immune system to treatment will be evaluated by several laboratory-based tests using blood and tumor samples collected at pre-treatment and on-treatment timepoints. The response of the immune system will be compared between those who respond versus those who do not respond to treatment, and between those who have liver metastases versus those who do not., Testing will be performed using samples collected prior to the first study treatment and at the time of the third study treatment, approximately 42 days later.
This is a phase II study investigating the efficacy and safety of a triple-combination immunotherapy regimen in patients diagnosed with microsatellite stable metastatic colorectal cancer (MSS mCRC), refractory to fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan chemotherapy. The trial is designed as a single-arm, Simon two-stage study.

All participants will receive a fixed-dose regimen of the three agents: atezolizumab (1200 mg), bevacizumab (15 mg/kg), and tiragolumab (600 mg), administered intravenously on day 1 of 21-day cycles. Treatment response will be assessed by imaging using RECIST v1.1 every 9 weeks. Study treatment will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, death, decision by the patient and/or treating physician to withdraw from the study, pregnancy, or study termination, whichever occurs first.

This study will enroll patients in 2 cohorts: A and B. Patients in Cohort A will undergo pre-treatment and on-treatment tumor biopsies for correlative studies. Patient in Cohort B will not receive study biopsies. Patients in Cohorts A and B will otherwise receive identical treatment.