Health Through Activity: A Pilot Study of a Rehabilitation Intervention for People Living With Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to explore whether a structured program can help reduce the challenges of decreased physical functioning and quality of life for participants with multiple myeloma by providing a customized exercise program and fostering engagement in meaningful activities.

The name of the study intervention involved in this study is:

Health Through Activity (HTA) (six-session, rehabilitation exercise regimen)
Multiple Myeloma
BEHAVIORAL: Health Through Activity
Rate of Participant Enrollment, Number participants enrolled / Number screened positive \& eligible. A rate of at least 75% will indicate feasibility., At screening|Assessment Completion Rate, Defined as the number of participants completing each of the three study assessments to number of participants enrolled. A completion rate of 85% will indicate feasibility., Up to 4 months|Screening Rate, Number patients screened/ Number patients identified as potentially eligible. Screening rate of at least 75% will indicate feasibility, Up to 4 months|Eligibility Rate, Number patients screening positive \& eligible / Number screened. Eligibility rate is influenced by how many people in the clinical population are experiencing disability. Based on our pilot study, expected rate to be at least 35%., Up to 4 months
Intervention Completion Rate, Defined as at least 75% of participants complete all six sessions of Health Through Activity (HTA) and if the mean number of sessions is greater than or equal to 4., Up to 3 months|Participant Satisfaction, Assessed by the Satisfaction survey which is a 7-item survey that is rated on a 5-point Likert scale. Any item on the Satisfaction survey that generates a mean score of \< 4 will trigger consideration of modification to the HTA program., Up to 4 months
The goal of this single arm, pilot study of the Health Through Activity (HTA) rehabilitation intervention for people living with multiple myeloma is to determine if investigators can feasibly deliver the program out of the IMPACT Practice Center at the MGH Institute for Health Professions.

- The six-session 'Health Through Activity' program provides a customized exercise plan and encourages engagement in activities to reduce disability and improve quality of life.

* Study procedures including screening for eligibility, in-clinic visits, questionnaires, and surveys.
* Participation in this research study is expected to last up to 4 months.

It is expected that up to 20 people will take part in this research study.

An internal grant from the Massachusetts General Hospital Institute of Health Professions is providing equipment and staffing for this study.