A Phase 1, First-In-Human Study of Escalating Doses of Oral TVB-2640 in Patients With Solid Tumors
This first in human phase 1 study of TVB-2640 is being conducted in patients with advanced stage solid malignant tumors. This research is being done to find out how safe and useful TVB-2640 is for patients who have received previous cancer therapy, and for whom no therapy exists that would be curative or might provide significant benefit. TVB-2640 belongs to a class of drugs called fatty acid synthase inhibitors (FASN inhibitors). This means that they interfere with the body's (and the tumor's) ability to use a substance called fatty acid synthase (FASN). Research has shown that some tumors appear to need FASN to keep growing.
Solid Malignant Tumor
DRUG: TVB-2640
To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) based on toxicity analysis., Toxicity will be monitored according to NCI - Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events version (4.03). Patients receiving at least one dose of drug., 1.5 years|To determine the incidence and nature of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of TVB-2640., Days 1 to 21 of cycle 1 for monotherapy cohort(s); Days 1 to 28 of cycle 1 for combination with anti-cancer agent cohort(s)
Incidence, nature and severity of adverse events and serious adverse events, graded according to NCI - Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events version (4.03)., Up to 28 days after the last dose of study treatment or until initiation of another anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first.|Pharmacokinetic parameters of TVB-2640 (including total exposure, maximum and minimum serum concentration, clearance, volume of distribution at steady state), Cmax, Cmin, Tmax, AUC and Half-life of TVB-2640, At Cycle Day 1, 2, 8, 15, (and 22 for combination cohorts) then the first day of subsequent cycles until discontinuation.|Tumor response per RECIST 1.1, Measured every 6 weeks for 21 day cycles or every 8 weeks for 28 day cycles for the duration of study treatment, estimated to be less than one year
This first in human phase 1 study of TVB-2640 is being conducted in patients with advanced stage solid malignant tumors. This research is being done to find out how safe and useful TVB-2640 is for patients who have received previous cancer therapy, and for whom no therapy exists that would be curative or might provide significant benefit. TVB-2640 belongs to a class of drugs called fatty acid synthase inhibitors (FASN inhibitors). This means that they interfere with the body's (and the tumor's) ability to use a substance called fatty acid synthase (FASN). Research has shown that some tumors appear to need FASN to keep growing.