Nab-Paclitaxel/STI-3031 Complex (AP160-Complex) for the Treatment of Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of a new drug called nab-paclitaxel/STI-3031 complex (AP160-complex) in treating patients with solid tumors that may have spread from where they first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced) or that have spread from where they first started (primary site) to other distant parts of the body (metastatic). AP160-complex is a combination of the chemotherapy drug nab-paclitaxel, and the immunotherapy drug STI-3031. Nab-paclitaxel is in a class of medications called antimicrotubule agents. It works by stopping the growth and spread of tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as STI-3031, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. AP160-complex may work better than standard therapies in treating advanced or metastatic solid tumors.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel/Danburstotug Complex AP160
Maximally tolerated dose (MTD), MTD is defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 6 new patients)., Up to 28 days (Cycle 1)
Incidence of adverse events, Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level, patient and tumor site will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Up to 90 days after last dose of AP160-complex|Best response, The patient's best response assignment will depend on the achievement of both measurement and confirmation criteria. The modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria will be used for tumor evaluation and patients will be re-evaluated every 8 weeks. Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population (overall and by tumor group). The number of responses may indicate further evaluation for specific tumor types in a Phase II setting., From the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for nab-paclitaxel/danburstotug complex AP160 (AP160).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicity profile of AP160 when administered as an intravenous (IV) infusion.

II. To determine the best response with AP160.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the evidence of immune response. II. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of paclitaxel administered in the context of AP160-complex.

III. To assess the tumor concentrations of paclitaxel 24 hours (h) following AP160-complex infusion and correlation with plasma levels.

IV. To assess the antitumor activity of the recommended phase II dose of AP160 in patients with metastatic solid tumors.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive AP160-complex IV on study. Patients in the dose-escalation cohort undergo computed tomography/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, tissue biopsies, and collection of blood samples throughout the trial. Patients in the dose-expansion cohort undergo MRI scan during screening, collection of blood samples during screening and on study, and tissue biopsies throughout the trial.