Chemotherapy, Radiotherapy and Bevacizumab in Patients With Unresectable Stage III Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see if this combination of chemotherapy plus radiation therapy and immunotherapy (with bevacizumab) expands treatment options for patients with non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|PROCEDURE: Radiotherapy|OTHER: Folic Acid|OTHER: vitamin B12|DRUG: carboplatin
Time to Progression, 18 months
Objective Response Rate, The objective benefit is defined as substantial shrinkage in tumor volume per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and is assessed by MRI or CT. Objective response = complete response + partial response. Complete Response (CR) is defined as the Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) is defined as \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 18 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the interval between the date of study entry until the date of death, 18 months
The patients on this study will receive treatment in 3 stages of therapy.

The first stage is Induction Therapy. This therapy is 7 weeks long. Patients will receive bevacizumab followed by pemetrexed followed by carboplatin all by vein once a week in weeks 1 and 4. During Induction patients will also receive radiation therapy daily, Monday through Friday, for 7 weeks (weeks 1-7). This is followed by 2 weeks of rest. During this rest period patients will have scans done to see how their disease has responded to treatment.

The next stage of treatment is Consolidation Therapy. This stage is 10 weeks long. Patients will receive bevacizumab followed by pemetrexed followed by carboplatin all by vein once a week in weeks 10, 13 and 16. This is followed by 3 weeks rest. During week 19 patients will have scans to see how their disease has responded to treatment.

The last stage of treatment is Maintenance Therapy. Patients will receive bevacizumab alone by vein every 3 weeks. Treatment will be given every three weeks for up to 9 treatments. (week 45)