IT-hu14.18-IL2 With Radiation, Nivolumab and Ipilimumab for Melanoma
This phase I/II trial is designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose or the maximum administered dose of intratumoral administration of hu14.18-IL2 and to evaluate side effects of intratumoral hu14.18-IL2 when given alone, after radiation therapy, after radiation therapy and in combination with nivolumab, and after radiation therapy and in combination with nivolumab and ipilimumab in patients with melanoma that is advanced (stage IV) or with melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery and is considered surgically incurable. Hu14.18-IL2 is a molecule called a fusion protein that can bind to some tumor cells and cause immune cells to become activated to kill tumor cells. Radiation therapy is a type of cancer treatment that uses beams of high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors, such as nivolumab and ipilimumab, can help the body's immune system attack cancer by releasing the "brakes" on the immune system to allow cancer fighting immune cells to remain activated. This study will evaluate whether giving intratumoral hu14.18-IL2 with radiation therapy, nivolumab and ipilimumab has antitumor activity for participants with advanced melanoma.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days, every 12 weeks for up to 2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: hu14.18-IL2|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab
Incidence of Adverse Events, The number and severity of toxicity incidents per (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 5.0 will be summarized with frequency and proportion. The 95% confidence interval for the proportion of subjects with severe complications (grade 3 or higher toxicities) will be constructed., up to 2 years|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which less than 33% of the subjects experience a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT). DLT will be defined as grade 3 or 4 toxicity that is possibly, probably or definitely related to IT-hu14.18-IL2 graded according to CTCAE v. 5.0. A standard 3+3 design and descriptive statistics will primarily be generated to summarize the data., up to 21 days|Maximum Administered Dose (MAD), The MAD is defined as the highest safely tolerated dose where less than 33% subjects experience a DLT but no higher dose level has been assessed. Descriptive statistics will primarily be generated to summarize the data., up to 21 days
Objective Tumor Response (OR), OR will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Furthermore, a point estimate along with the 95% confidence interval for the proportion of subjects with OR will be provided. Clinical outcome of OR will be summarized by dose level for Phase IC., Up to 5 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The length of time from the start of treatment until disease progression or death. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival distribution of progression-free survival for the Phase ID expansion cohort., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from the start of treatment until death from any cause. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival distribution of overall survival for the Phase ID expansion cohort., Up to 5 years|Clinical Benefit (CB), The status of achieving complete response, partial response or stable disease in response to treatment. Clinical Benefit will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Furthermore, a point estimate along with the 95% confidence interval for the proportion of subjects with clinical benefit will be provided., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response, The length of time from documentation of tumor response until disease progression. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the survival distribution for the Phase ID expansion cohort., Up to 5 years|Immunologic Parameters: Change in Antibody Dependent Cell-Mediated Toxicity (ADCC) Function, Immunologic activation induced in vivo by intratumoral (IT)-hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein will be evaluated using both in vivo and in vitro analyses. Changes between assessment time points will be evaluated using a paired t-test or non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test, depending on the scale and distribution of the endpoint., Baseline, Cycle 3 day 1, Cycle 5 day 1, End of Treatment (up to 13 cycles) (cycles 1-4 are 21 days, 5+ are 28 days)|Immunologic Parameters: Change in Natural Killer (NK) Cell Function, Immunologic activation induced in vivo by intratumoral (IT)-hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein will be evaluated using both in vivo and in vitro analyses. Changes between assessment time points will be evaluated using a paired t-test or non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test, depending on the scale and distribution of the endpoint., Baseline, Cycle 3 day 1, Cycle 5 day 1, End of Treatment (up to 13 cycles) (cycles 1-4 are 21 days, 5+ are 28 days)|Immunologic Parameters: Change in Soluble Interleukin-2 Receptor alpha (IL-2 alpha) Levels, Immunologic activation induced in vivo by intratumoral (IT)-hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein will be evaluated using both in vivo and in vitro analyses. Changes between assessment time points will be evaluated using a paired t-test or non-parametric Wilcoxon signed rank test, depending on the scale and distribution of the endpoint., Baseline; Cycle 1 days 1,4,8; Cycle 4 days 1,4,8; Cycle 7 days 1,4,8; Cycle 10 day 1,4,8 (cycles 1-4 are 21 days, 5+ are 28 days)|Histological Parameters: Change in Necrotic Tumor Cells from Baseline, For the primary parameters to be assessed on the resected melanoma an objective scoring system will be established by a pathologist, grading each specimen with a score of 0, +, ++, +++. Changes in number of Necrotic Tumor Cells from baseline will be evaluated using a paired McNemar's test for binary outcomes. Quantitative assessment of necrosis of tumor cells will be measured and scored with a value ranging from 0% - 100% of tumor area., Baseline, Cycle 1, Cycle 2, Cycle 4 (cycles 1-4 are 21 days)|Histological Parameters: Change in Apoptosis from Baseline, For the primary parameters to be assessed on the resected melanoma an objective scoring system will be established by a pathologist, grading each specimen with a score of 0, +, ++, +++., Baseline, Cycle 1, Cycle 2, Cycle 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Histological Parameters: Change in Inflammatory Infiltrate in the tumor from Baseline, For the primary parameters to be assessed on the resected melanoma an objective scoring system will be established by a pathologist, grading each specimen with a score of 0, +, ++, +++., Baseline, Cycle 1, Cycle 2, Cycle 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Histological Parameters: Change in Cellular Phenotype of Infiltrate, Cellular phenotype of infiltrate within the tumor will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Changes from baseline will be evaluated using a paired McNemar's test for binary outcomes., Baseline, Cycle 1, Cycle 2, Cycle 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Histological Parameters: Change in hu14.18-IL2 in the tumor from Baseline, Presence hu14.18-IL2 within the tumor will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Changes from baseline will be evaluated using a paired McNemar's test for binary outcomes., Baseline, Cycle 1, Cycle 2, Cycle 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters: alpha half-life, Pharmacokinetic assessments will be performed on multiple serum specimens for each subject. The analysis of all PK parameters will be performed using the PK analysis population. The distribution half-life called alpha half-life (t1/2 alpha) will be summarized by dose level with simple summary statistics., At baseline, course 1 day 5, and day 5 of courses 2 & 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters: beta half-life, Pharmacokinetic assessments will be performed on multiple serum specimens for each subject. The analysis of all PK parameters will be performed using the PK analysis population. The elimination half-life called beta half-life (t1/2 beta) will be summarized by dose level with simple summary statistics., At baseline, course 1 day 5, and day 5 of courses 2 & 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters: Area Under the Curve (AUC), Pharmacokinetic assessments will be performed on multiple serum specimens for each subject. The analysis of all PK parameters will be performed using the PK analysis population. AUC will be summarized by dose level with simple summary statistics., At baseline, course 1 day 5, and day 5 of courses 2 & 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Pharmacokinetic Parameters: Clearance (CL), Pharmacokinetic assessments will be performed on multiple serum specimens for each subject. The analysis of all PK parameters will be performed using the PK analysis population. Clearance will be summarized by dose level with simple summary statistics., At baseline, course 1 day 5, and day 5 of courses 2 & 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters: Relationship between Dose and AUC, Scatterplots will be used to explore possible associations between the dose and area under the curve (AUC). The Jonckheere-Terpstra trend test will be performed to determine the significance of the association between increasing dose level and AUC., At baseline, course 1 day 5, and day 5 of courses 2 & 4 (cycle length is 21 days)|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters: Relationship PK parameters and Toxicity, Logistic regression analyses will be performed to correlate PK parameters with toxicity (grade \>= 3 vs. grade 0-2) and response., At baseline, course 1 day 5, and day 5 of courses 2 & 4 (cycle length is 21 days)
Analysis of Antibody Resistance: OR, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS, and OS will be analyzed separately among subjects who were resistant to prior treatment with anti-CTLA-4 and/or anti-PD1/PD-L1 antibodies and those who lacked resistance in a subgroup analysis. This comparison is by necessity exploratory in nature and hypothesis generating., Up to 5 years|Analysis of Antibody Resistance: Duration of Response, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS, and OS will be analyzed separately among subjects who were resistant to prior treatment with anti-CTLA-4 and/or anti-PD1/PD-L1 antibodies and those who lacked resistance in a subgroup analysis. This comparison is by necessity exploratory in nature and hypothesis generating., Up to 5 years|Analysis of Antibody Resistance: CB, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS, and OS will be analyzed separately among subjects who were resistant to prior treatment with anti-CTLA-4 and/or anti-PD1/PD-L1 antibodies and those who lacked resistance in a subgroup analysis. This comparison is by necessity exploratory in nature and hypothesis generating., Up to 5 years|Analysis of Antibody Resistance: PFS, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS, and OS will be analyzed separately among subjects who were resistant to prior treatment with anti-CTLA-4 and/or anti-PD1/PD-L1 antibodies and those who lacked resistance in a subgroup analysis. This comparison is by necessity exploratory in nature and hypothesis generating., Up to 5 years|Analysis of Antibody Resistance: OS, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS, and OS will be analyzed separately among subjects who were resistant to prior treatment with anti-CTLA-4 and/or anti-PD1/PD-L1 antibodies and those who lacked resistance in a subgroup analysis. This comparison is by necessity exploratory in nature and hypothesis generating., Up to 5 years|Analysis of GD2+ vs GD2- Patients: OR, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS and OS and treatment associated selected biologic effects will be analyzed separately among patients who are GD2+ and those who are GD2- in a subgroup analysis. These outcome measures will be compared using two-sample t-test, log rank test and chi-square/Fisher's exact test between the two groups of patients who are GD2+ and who are GD2-., Up to 5 years|Analysis of GD2+ vs GD2- Patients: Duration of Response, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS and OS and treatment associated selected biologic effects will be analyzed separately among patients who are GD2+ and those who are GD2- in a subgroup analysis. These outcome measures will be compared using two-sample t-test, log rank test and chi-square/Fisher's exact test between the two groups of patients who are GD2+ and who are GD2-., Up to 5 years|Analysis of GD2+ vs GD2- Patients: CB, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS and OS and treatment associated selected biologic effects will be analyzed separately among patients who are GD2+ and those who are GD2- in a subgroup analysis. These outcome measures will be compared using two-sample t-test, log rank test and chi-square/Fisher's exact test between the two groups of patients who are GD2+ and who are GD2-., Up to 5 years|Analysis of GD2+ vs GD2- Patients: PFS, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS and OS and treatment associated selected biologic effects will be analyzed separately among patients who are GD2+ and those who are GD2- in a subgroup analysis. These outcome measures will be compared using two-sample t-test, log rank test and chi-square/Fisher's exact test between the two groups of patients who are GD2+ and who are GD2-., Up to 5 years|Analysis of GD2+ vs GD2- Patients: OS, Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS and OS and treatment associated selected biologic effects will be analyzed separately among patients who are GD2+ and those who are GD2- in a subgroup analysis. These outcome measures will be compared using two-sample t-test, log rank test and chi-square/Fisher's exact test between the two groups of patients who are GD2+ and who are GD2-., Up to 5 years|PD-L1 expression, PD-L1 expression level will be compared between baseline and after initiation of treatment using linear mixed effects model after suitable transformation of PD-L1 expression level. Clinical outcomes such as OR, duration of response, CB, PFS and OS and treatment associated selected biologic effects will be analyzed separately among patients who are PDL1+ and those who are PD-L1- in a subgroup analysis. In addition, these outcome measures will be compared using two-sample t-test, log rank test and chi-square/Fisher's exact test between the two groups of patients who are PD-L1+ and who are PD-L1-., up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum administered dose (MAD) of intratumoral (IT)-Hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein (hu14.18-IL2) in subjects with advanced melanoma (Phase IA)

II. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of IT-hu14.18-IL2 when given alone (Phase IA)

III. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum administered dose (MAD) of IT-hu14.18-IL2 after receiving palliative radiation therapy (RT) in subjects with advanced melanoma (Phase IB)

IV. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of palliative RT with IT-hu14.18-IL2 (Phase IB)

V. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum administered dose (MAD) of IT-hu14.18-IL2 after receiving palliative RT and in combination with nivolumab in subjects with advanced melanoma (Phase IC)

VI. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of palliative RT, nivolumab and IT-hu14.18-IL2 (Phase IC)

VII. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum administered dose (MAD) of IT-hu14.18-IL2 after receiving palliative RT and in combination with nivolumab and ipilimumab in subjects with advanced melanoma (Phase ID)

VIII. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of palliative RT, nivolumab, ipilimumab and IT-hu14.18-IL2 (Phase ID)

IX. Evaluate local and systemic objective tumor responses to treatment with IT-hu14.18-IL2 in combination with palliative RT, nivolumab, and ipilimumab (Phase ID)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), clinical benefit (CB, defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) + stable disease (SD)) and duration of response to hu14.18-IL2 in combination with RT, nivolumab and ipilimumab.

II. Evaluate pathologic (tissue) evidence of immune response at the injection site and untreated sites.

III. Evaluate PFS, CB and duration of response to hu14.18-IL2 in combination with palliative RT, nivolumab and ipilimumab based on resistance to prior treatment with anti-CTLA-4 and/or anti PD1/PD-L1 antibody.

IV. Evaluate serial serum samples to determine the pharmacokinetics of hu14.18-IL2 administered intratumorally.

V. Evaluate each subject's tumor cells for expression of GD2 and PD-L1, and determine if either antitumor activity or selected treatment-associated biologic effects are more likely for tumors that are GD2+ then GD2- and PD-L1+ than PD-L1-.

VI. Evaluate whether PD-L1 expression is induced or augmented from baseline following initiation of treatment (by comparing serial biopsies).

VII. Evaluate the immunologic activation induced in vivo by IT-hu14.18-IL2, addressed by in vitro cellular, serologic and flow cytometry immune assays.

VIII. Evaluate for histological evidence of antitumor activity based on the presence of necrotic tumor cells, inflammatory infiltrate, cellular phenotype of infiltrate, and presence of hu14.18-IL2 within the tumor at selected post-treatment timepoints.

IX. Evaluate circulating tumor cells, exosomes, endogenous antibodies, and/or deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) as exploratory biomarkers associated with clinical response to IT-hu14.18-IL2 in combination with RT, nivolumab and ipilimumab.

X. Evaluate serial peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples to monitor the induction of T cell responses to melanoma-associated antigens.

XI. Evaluate objective tumor responses, both locally and systemically (by immune-related response criteria), in Phases IA, IB and IC of this trial (involving IT-hu14.18-IL2 alone and in combinations with palliative RT, and with palliative RT and nivolumab, respectively).

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein.

PHASE IA: Participants receive hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein intratumorally (IT) once daily (QD) on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for cycles 1-4. Participants who are eligible may continue to receive hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein maintenance therapy QD on days 1-3 beginning with cycle 5. Maintenance cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. A total of 9-18 participants will be enrolled in 3 escalating dose levels to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD)/Maximum Administered Dose (MAD) of hu14.18-IL2 in Phase IA.

PHASE IB: Participants undergo palliative RT on days -8 to -4 of cycle 1 only. Participants also receive hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein IT as in phase IA. Treatment with hu14.18-IL2 repeats every 21 days for cycles 1-4. Participants who are eligible may continue to receive hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein maintenance therapy QD on days 1-3 beginning with cycle 5. Maintenance cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The MTD/MAD of IT-hu14.18-IL2 following palliative RT will be determined starting 1 dose level below the Phase IA determined MTD/MAD of IT-hu14.18-IL2 up to the Phase IA determined MTD/MAD.

PHASE IC: Participants undergo palliative RT on days -8 to -4 of cycle 1 only. Nivolumab (3 mg/kg) is given every 2 weeks for up to 1 year with the initial dose given between day -7 and day -1 of cycle 1. Participants also receive hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein IT as in phase IA. Treatment with hu14.18-IL2 repeats every 21 days for cycles 1-4. Participants who are eligible may continue to receive hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein maintenance therapy QD on days 1-3 beginning with cycle 5. Maintenance cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The MTD/MAD of IT-hu14.18-IL2 following palliative RT in combination with nivolumab will be determined starting 1 dose level below the Phase IB determined MTD/MAD of IT-hu14.18-IL2 up to the Phase IB determined MTD/MAD.

PHASE ID: Participants undergo palliative RT on days -8 to -4 of cycle 1 only. Nivolumab (1 mg/kg) in combination with ipilimumab (3 mg/kg) is given every 3 weeks for 4 cycles with the initial dose given between day -7 and day -1 of cycle 1. Following 4 cycles, no additional ipilimumab will be administered. Following cycle 4, maintenance nivolumab (3 mg/kg) can be given for up to one year. Participants also receive hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein IT as in phase IA. Treatment with hu14.18-IL2 repeats every 21 days for cycles 1-4. Participants who are eligible may continue to receive hu14.18-IL2 fusion protein maintenance therapy QD on days 1-3 beginning with cycle 5. Maintenance cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. The MTD/MAD of IT-hu14.18-IL2 following palliative RT in combination with nivolumab and ipilimumab will be determined starting 1 dose level below the Phase IC determined MTD/MAD of IT-hu14.18-IL2 up to the Phase IC determined MTD/MAD. A total of 28 participants will be enrolled at the Phase ID MTD/MAD of IT-hu14.18-IL2.