High Flow Oxygen and Bilevel Airway Pressure for Persistent Dyspnea in Patients With Advanced Cancer
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if specialized breathing devices reduce the sensation of shortness of breath in patients with advanced cancer who are experiencing shortness of breath. Researchers want to learn if these devices can help to control shortness of breath.

The 2 devices being tested and compared are called BiPAP (bilevel positive airway pressure) and Vapotherm.
Advanced Cancers
DEVICE: Vapotherm|DEVICE: BIPAP
Number of Participants Completing Study Intervention, Retention rate defined as the percentage of subjects able to complete the first phase (washout) of study.

A variable washout/follow-up period after the first intervention was used to determine the optimal duration required for participants to return to baseline dyspnea level. After participants completed the first intervention by one hour, they were able to proceed to the second intervention if (1) their dyspnea level was \>/= baseline dyspnea level-1, or (2) their dyspnea level was \>/= 3/10 after one hour., Minimally 1 hour, up to 5 hours|Effects of BIPAP and VapoTherm Device on Severity of Dyspnea as Measured by the Numeric Rating Scale, Dyspnea, a subjective sensation experienced by participants, was assessed with the numeric rating scale (NRS) before and after each 2 hour intervention. The NRS is a validated 11-point scale ranging from 0 (no dyspnea) to 10 (worst dyspnea). Participants received either (1) 2 hours of HFO followed by a variable washout period and then 2 hours of BiPAP or (2) 2 hours of BiPAP followed by a variable wash-out period and then 2 hours of HFO., Up to 5 hours, baseline/enrollment to 5 hours (2 hours for each treatment with variable wash-out period)
Study Devices:

The BiPAP device is designed to help people get more air in and out of their lungs without using as much effort as regular breathing. The air is given through a mask, and the amount of air can be set to different levels.

The Vapotherm device is also designed to deliver air in and out of the lungs. The air is warmed, filtered for bacteria, and then delivered through the nose using a tube under the nostrils.

Study Groups:

If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups.

* Group 1 will receive air through BiPAP for up to 2 hours and then air through Vapotherm for up to 2 hours.
* Group 2 will receive air through Vapotherm for up to 2 hours and then air through BiPAP for up to 2 hours.

The study staff will help you use the devices.

If you have trouble with one of the devices, you can be switched to the other device before the 2-hour period is over.

After using the first device, you will wait for up to 60 minutes before switching over to the other device. This waiting period will occur no matter if you used the first device for the full 2 hours or not.

During the waiting period, you will return to the same air delivery device and oxygen level that you were using just before you started the study. The study staff will also be checking to see if you are still eligible to use the second device.

Study Tests:

During the study period, your vital signs and level of air breathed out will be recorded using a measuring device on your chest.

Before and after using the devices, you will rate how hard it is to catch your breath.

After using the second device, you will fill out a questionnaire that has questions about which device you prefer. This should take less than 5 minutes.

Length of Study:

You will be on this study for up to 5 hours. You will be taken off study and the device will be stopped if intolerable side effects occur while using a study device.

Use of Other Drugs:

During the 4-5 hour study period, you will not be allowed to take certain drugs for standard care that may affect the study tests. These drugs include certain pain-killer drugs (such as morphine and hydromorphone), steroids (such as prednisone and dexamethasone), and inhaled drugs (such as ipratropium and salbutamol).

Any doses of inhaled drugs (regularly scheduled doses and "as needed" doses) and any "as needed" doses of pain-killer drugs and steroids that fall within the 4-5 hour study period will be put on hold and will be given to you right after the study is complete.

You may, however, choose to take these drugs, either because your shortness of breath is not controlled, or because these drugs are needed to treat other problems (such as pain). If you and your doctor decide that you should take these drugs during the study period, you will be taken off study so you can receive these drugs. The reason for stopping your study participation is that these drugs may affect how you rate your shortness of breath.

This is an investigational study. The BIPAP and Vapotherm devices are commercially available and FDA approved for delivering oxygen when medically needed, including in patients with advanced cancer. The investigational part of this study is to collect information from asking patients to rate how well the study devices may affect shortness of breath.

Up to 50 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.