Photodynamic Therapy With HPPH in Treating Patients With Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity
This randomized phase II trial studies how well photodynamic therapy with HPPH works in treating patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity. Photodynamic therapy uses HPPH that becomes active when it is exposed to a certain kind of light. When the drug is active, cancer cells are killed. This may be effective against squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity.
Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage I Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage II Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity
DRUG: HPPH|DEVICE: Light Infusion Therapy™|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Objective tumor response assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, Objective tumor response will be tabulated overall. Tumor response will be determined by comparing photographs of the treated site (with reference ruler) before and after PDT. Efficacy (e.g., tumor response) will be estimated using simple relative frequencies. The corresponding 95% confidence intervals for the estimated probabilities will be computed using the method proposed in Clopper and Pearson., 3 months after treatment|Changes in quality of life evaluated by the University of Washington Quality of Life Questionnaire version 4, In the analysis of QoL simple data analyses will initially take place including individual patient level profile plots and overall mean plots used to examining the mean structure. Formal statistical examination of longitudinal patterns will be done through the use of a mixed model. All tests will be two-sided and tested at a 0.05 nominal significance level. Standard diagnostic plots will be used to assess model fit and transformations of variables may be considered in order to meet statistical assumptions., Baseline to up to 5 years
Frequency of toxicity graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade across all cycles. The safety of the interventions will be assessed through the evaluation of grade 3 or higher toxicities deemed possibly related to treatment. Toxicity rates will be estimated using simple relative frequencies. The corresponding 95% confidence intervals for the estimated probabilities will be computed using the method proposed in Clopper and Pearson., Up to 6 weeks after treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the non-inferiority of photodynamic therapy (PDT) to standard of care surgery.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine improvement in quality of life (QoL) using the University of Washington Quality of life questionnaire version 4.

II. To assess the toxicity using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version 4.0).

III. To explore progression-free survival in this patient population treated with HPPH mediated PDT.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Immune markers (T cells). II. To investigate the correlation of the tri-modal optical spectroscopy with tumor response to PDT.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatments arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo standard of care surgery on day 1.

ARM II: Patients receive HPPH intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 0. Approximately 24 hours later, patients undergo photodynamic therapy on day 1.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 3-4 months for 1 year, 3-6 months for 1 year, 4-8 months for 1 year, and once a year for 2 years.