Extended Systematic Versus Mri-Assisted pRostate Transperineal Biopsy
This is a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the detection of clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa) by MRI-targeted approach (MRI-arm) versus 24-core transperineal (TP) systematic biopsy (TP-arm). Clinically significant prostate cancer (csPCa) is defined as ISUP (International Society of Urogenital Pathology) Grade group ≥2 prostate cancer. Patients with elevated PSA 4-20 ng/mL with or without abnormal digital rectal examination (DRE) will be randomized in a 1:1 manner to MRI-arm or TP-arm. In the MRI-arm, multiparametric MRI prostate will be performed for each subject. MRI prostate is considered abnormal if PI-RADS (Prostate Imaging-Reporting and Data System, version 2.1) score is 3, 4 or 5. For subjects in MRI-arm with abnormal MRI, MRI-targeted biopsy will be performed, followed by 12-core systematic transperineal biopsy (sparing MRI-target). For subjects in MRI-arm with normal MRI, no biopsy is performed. For subjects in TP-arm, 24-core systematic transperineal biopsy will be performed without MRI guidance. The study flowchart is provided in Figure 1. The detection rates of csPCa will be compared between MRI-targeted biopsy plus 12-core systematic biopsy (in MRI-arm) versus TP-arm. The study hypothesis is MRI-guided prostate biopsy with 12-core systematic biopsy is superior to 24-core transperineal systematic biopsy in detection of csPCa.
Prostate Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: MRI and MRI-guided prostate biopsy|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: TP-arm Systematic biopsy
Proportion of men with clinically significant Prostate cancer(csPCa), diagnosis of ISUP Grade group 2 or above prostate cancer in at least 1 biopsy core in MRI-arm Vs TP-arm, ISUP Grade 2 or above prostate cancer diagnosed on biopsy, When histology results available, at an expected average of 30 days post-biopsy
Proportion of men with diagnosis of clinically insignificant prostate cancer (ISUP Grade group 1), ISUP Grade 1-5, the higher grade the higher risk., When histology results available, at an expected average of 30 days post-biopsy|Proportion of men in MRI arm with normal MRI who could avoid a biopsy, The number of patients in MRI arm with normal MRI, When MRI results available, at an expected average of 30 days post-MRI|Proportion of men with post-biopsy adverse events within 30 days after biopsy, The severity of Adverse event is grade by Clavien-Dindo classification, 30 days post biopsy|Proportion of men with csPCa in MRI-arm (Targeted biopsy only) Vs TP-arm (24-core Systematic biopsy), ISUP Grade 2 or above prostate cancer diagnosed on biopsy, When histology results available, at an expected average of 30 days post-biopsy|Cancer core length of the most involved biopsy core, maximum cancer core length in mm, When histology results available, at an expected average of 30 days post-biopsy|Health-related Quality of life scores, EQ-5D-5L, At recruitment, and at 30 days after intervention|Cost per diagnosis of cancer, Cost to diagnosis one cancer, 30 days post-biopsy
The current study is a randomized controlled trial using a superiority design with the subjects randomized in 1:1 manner to either MRI-arm or TP-arm. In the MRI-arm, multiparametric MRI is performed for all subjects. If MRI is abnormal (PI-RADS score 3-5), 3-4 core targeted followed by 12-core systematic transperineal biopsies under local anaesthesia will be performed. If MRI is normal, no biopsy is performed. A 12-core systematic biopsy is also included in MRI-targeted biopsy as it has been shown in the Trio study that adding systematic biopsy increased the detection of csPCa.

In the TP-arm, no MRI will be performed, and all subjects will receive 24-core transperineal prostate biopsy under local anaesthesia. Patient will be followed up in clinic about 30 days after biopsy to review pathology result and complication.