A Safety and Activity Study of SBT6050 in Combination With Other HER2-directed Therapies for HER2-positive Cancers
This study is designed to assess the safety and preliminary activity of SBT6050 in combination with trastuzumab deruxtecan (Part 1) or tucatinib plus trastuzumab +/- capecitabine (Part 2). Participants will be enrolled into each Arm based on cancer diagnosis and prior therapies.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|HER2-positive Gastric Cancer|HER2-positive Colorectal Cancer|HER2-expressing Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: SBT6050|DRUG: trastuzumab deruxtecan|DRUG: tucatinib|DRUG: trastuzumab|DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: trastuzumab deruxtecan
Proportion of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities, Severity of treatment-emergent adverse events as assessed by the NCI CTCAE Version 5.0. This outcome measure applies only to participants in the dose escalation cohorts., 21 days|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Severity of treatment-emergent adverse events as assessed by the NCI CTCAE Version 5.0. This outcome measure applies only to participants in the dose escalation cohorts., 18 weeks|Number of Participants With Laboratory Abnormalities, Clinically significant treatment-emergent laboratory abnormalities as assessed by the NCI CTCAE Version 5.0. This outcome measure applies only to participants in the dose escalation cohorts., 18 weeks|Number of Participants With an Objective Response Rate, Complete response and partial response as assessed by RECIST Version 1.1 Criteria. This outcome measure applies only to participants in the dose expansion cohorts., 0 weeks
Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Severity of treatment-emergent adverse events as assessed by the NCI CTCAE Version 5.0. This outcome measure applies only to participants in the dose expansion cohorts., 0 weeks|Number of Participants With an Objective Response Rate, Complete response and partial response as assessed by RECIST Version 1.1 Criteria. This outcome measure applies only to participants in the dose escalation cohorts., 18 weeks|Duration of Response for Participants With an Objective Response Rate, The length of time from the participant's first complete response or partial response as assessed by RECIST Version 1.1 Criteria until disease progression or death. This outcome measure applies to all participants., 0 weeks|Proportion of Participants With Clinical Benefit Rate, Complete response, partial response, or durable stable disease as assessed by RECIST Version 1.1 Criteria. This outcome measure applied only to participants in the dose expansion cohorts., 0 weeks
This study is designed to assess the safety and preliminary activity of SBT6050 in combination with trastuzumab deruxtecan (Part 1) or tucatinib plus trastuzumab +/- capecitabine (Part 2). Participants will be enrolled into each Arm based on cancer diagnosis and prior therapies.