Exploration of Immunodynamic Monitoring in the Population Evaluation of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Immunotherapy in Patients With Solid Tumors of the Chest.
Chest malignant solid tumor (mainly lung and esophageal cancer) is a common malignant tumor that seriously threatens the health of residents in China. Its morbidity and mortality rank first, sixth, first, and fourth among all malignant tumors respectively. The treatment effect is not satisfactory, and the overall 5-year survival rate after surgery alone is about 20%-35%. Recent studies have shown that neoadjuvant therapy combined with surgery in the treatment of locally advanced esophageal cancer and lung cancer can significantly improve the efficacy compared with surgery alone. The results of multiple international and multi-center neoadjuvant immunotherapy showed that this new model of combined immunoadjuvant immunotherapy brought a breakthrough point for the treatment of malignant solid tumors of the chest. However, its safety and target benefit groups are still the biggest problems, and there is a large room for improvement. To develop the optimal treatment strategy, it is necessary to further clarify the immunomodulatory mechanisms of neoadjuvant CTIO, explore and develop new evaluation methods and prognostic biomarkers for the selection of targeted benefit patients, and the evaluation of efficacy. This is a key scientific issue in the current neoadjuvant CTIO treatment mode for thoracic malignant solid tumors, mainly lung and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, which urgently needs to solve its safety and select the benefit population.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Anti-PD-1 antibody combined with Paclitaxel and carboplatin.|PROCEDURE: Surgical treatment stage
Functional subsets of peripheral CD8 positive T cells, Approximately 1 years|Overall response rate(ORR), Objective Response Rate is defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR), from the beginning of regimental therapy to the end of neoadjuvant therapy, the efficacy of baseline target lesions was assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria., Approximately 1 years|Pathological complete response (pCR), Pathological complete response is defined as 0% survival of tumor cells in surgically resected tumor samples after neoadjuvant therapy, as assessed by tumor regression grade., At time of surgery|Immune Related Adverse Events (irAEs), Assess all adverse events according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for (NCI-CTCAE) v 4.0.3., Approximately 1 years
Progress Free Survival(PFS), Progress Free Survival is defined as included the development of new metastases, or local progression of metastases or primary lesions that underwent surgical resection and will be assessed according to RESIST 1.1 criteria., Approximately 1 years|2-year survival rate, up to 2 years
As a major participant in cellular immunity, CD8-positive T cells are considered to be the main anti-tumor immune effector cells. In addition to producing specific immune responses to viruses and other infections, their functional subsets are closely related to the occurrence and development of major human diseases. Therefore, we have reason to believe that the combination of dynamic monitoring of host immune background and traditional clinical evaluation can effectively clarify the immune background of patients with lung cancer and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, and provide new ideas and methods for the selection of appropriate immunotherapy regimen and prognosis evaluation. However, the research in this field is still in its infancy.