Sulphate Accumulation in Prostate
This study evaluates whether a broccoli intervention (≥ 4 weeks) will result in differences in tissue sulphate levels in men scheduled for prostate biopsies. Comparisons will be made between participants randomised to the broccoli-rich diet and those randomised to the non-intervention arm.
Prostate Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Dietary intervention|OTHER: Normal diet
Sulphate level, Sulphate levels will be measured in biopsy tissue samples from both prostate and adipose (fat) tissues., Biopsy on a single occasion at ≥ 4 weeks
ADP, Adenosine diphosphate (ADP) levels will be measured in biopsy tissue samples from both prostate and adipose (fat) tissues., Biopsy on a single occasion at ≥ 4 weeks|Redox status of phosphatase proteins, The redox status of phosphatase proteins, including the tumour suppressor PTEN will be assessed in biopsy tissue samples from the prostate gland., Biopsy on a single occasion at ≥ 4 weeks
Epidemiological studies provide evidence for a negative correlation between prostate cancer and intake of cruciferous vegetables such as broccoli. Preliminary data from ongoing intervention trials carried out at the IFR suggest that dietary changes can directly influence the metabolic profile of prostate tissue. The most significant result observed to date is that of sulphate accumulation within the prostate. The additional sulphate is likely to drive synthesis of 3'-phosphoadenosine-5'-phosphosulfate, a universal sulphate donor, a process which would consume energy from ATP. A significant rise in levels of both ADP and phosphate has also been observed in prostate tissue from these studies, supporting the potential depletion of cellular ATP. Interestingly, the data indicate that the extent of ADP accumulation is negatively correlated with prostate cancer progression.

The investigators now propose to undertake a two arm parallel un-blinded study to test the hypothesis that a short-term intervention with broccoli soups will lead to the accumulation of sulphate and ADP in prostate tissue. A potential increase in glutathione metabolites indicating a change in redox status, and therefore functional status, of specific genes involved in tumour suppression (PTEN) will also be investigated.

Furthermore, the investigators aim to determine whether the accumulation of sulphate and ADP is specific to the prostate gland through the metabolic analyses of both prostate and non-prostate tissues.