Porfimer Sodium Interstitial Photodynamic Therapy With or Without Standard of Care Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects of interstitial photodynamic therapy (I-PDT) in treating patients with head and neck cancer that has spread to other parts of the body or that has come back. Interstitial photodynamic therapy uses a light-sensitive drug called porfimer sodium. This drug is activated by laser light delivered through special fibers into the tumor.

In this study the doctors will evaluate the safety of I-PDT and determine the potentially effective light setting in this treatment.
Recurrent Head and Neck Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Head and Neck Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Porfimer Sodium|PROCEDURE: Interstitial Illumination Photodynamic Therapy|OTHER: Quality of Life Assessment
Frequency of Adverse Events Per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0, The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by max grade of any Adverse Events experience by a patient across dose levels and cycles. All subjects who receive any study treatment will be considered evaluable for toxicity., Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of porfimer sodium (Photofrin) mediated interstitial photodynamic therapy (I-PDT) in patients with locally advanced or recurrent head and neck cancer (HNC) .

* To determine the recommended light irradiance dose for a future Phase 2 trial of Photofrin® mediated I-PDT in patients with locally advanced or recurrent HNC

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I . To access the objective tumor response rate

OUTLINE: This is a phase I study .

Patients receive porfimer sodium intravenously (IV) over 3-5 minutes and undergo I-PDT approximately 48 hours later.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 1-3 months for the first year, 2-6 months for 2nd year, and annually up to 5 years.