Ocular Complications From Cancer Therapy - Patient Registry and Biobank
The purpose of this study is to collect data on patients seen at University of Maryland after undergoing cancer therapy. Previous medications, ocular history, medical history, clinical evaluations, surgical procedures and outcomes will be gathered on the patients who consent to participate. Potential subjects will be enrolled from the clinical practice of the investigator at the time of their eye examination visit. A standard of care exam will be performed pertinent to the reason for the visit. In addition to the standard of care exam, certain biological specimens (ocular surface wash, mucocellular material, corneal filaments, impression cytology, and/or blood) will be collected, stored, and analyzed to obtain immunologic, cellular, or molecular mechanistic insights into disease pathogenesis.
Graft Versus Host Disease in Eye|Ocular Complications|Inflammatory Dry Eye Disease
PROCEDURE: Eye exam
International Chronic Ocular Graft Versus Host Disease Severity Score, The International Chronic oGVHD severity score (Ogawa, Y. et al. International Chronic Ocular Graft-vs-Host-Disease (GVHD) Consensus Group: Proposed Diagnostic Criteria for Chronic GVHD (Part I). Sci Rep 3, 3419 (2013). https://doi.org/10.1038/srep03419) is the standard of care for diagnosing and monitoring ocular GvHD. Briefly, this is calculated based on the sum of the patient's Schirmer's severity score (range of 0-3), OSDI severity score (range of 0-3), corneal fluorescein staining severity score (range of 0-3), and conjunctival injection severity score (range of 0-2). This sum ranges from 0 to 11. To diagnose whether a patient has no oGVHD, probable oGVHD, or definite oGVHD, there are two separate scales depending on whether the patient has systemic GVHD or not. Based on the sum of the characteristics, one can diagnose whether or not the patient has oGVHD. Patients are categorized into None, Probable or Definite and the criteria is different based on their systemic GvHD status., At the time of intervention (eye exam), between on average 3 months to 5 years post-transplant, but this can also extend up to 10 years post-transplant. The expected average will be 3 years post-transplant.
The objective of this study is to evaluate and study the immunologic changes in patients who undergo cancer therapy, specifically identifying patients who are at risk of developing ocular complications from their cancer therapy such as ocular GVHD and corneal toxicity. By creating a detailed registry and robust biobank of patients' samples, the investigators will have the ability to (1) better define the pathogenesis of the ocular toxicity such as ocular GVHD or corneal keratopathy from cancer immunologics, (2) identify predictive factors for developing ocular complications as a result of cancer therapy. By developing a biobank of patients' samples who have undergone cancer therapy, the investigators will have the ability to evaluate clinical findings and determine factors and markers to better understand the mechanisms corneal disease in these patients. Through this biobank, the investigators would like to gather data on the clinical findings and management of ocular complications in patients who have undergone cancer treatment. Participants will fall into one of two groups: either the the Bone Marrow Transplant/Cancer Therapy group or Control group where they have no previous history of cancer therapy. The intervention in this study will be the eye exam.