Glembatumumab Vedotin in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Locally Recurrent Uveal Melanoma
This phase II trial studies how well glembatumumab vedotin works in treating patients with middle layer of the wall of the eye (uveal) melanoma that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) or has returned at or near the same place after a period of time during which the cancer could not be detected (locally recurrent). Glembatumumab vedotin may shrink the tumor by binding to tumor cells and delivering tumor-killing substances to them.
Recurrent Uveal Melanoma|Stage IV Uveal Melanoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Glembatumumab Vedotin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Overall Response Rate Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI and/or CT: Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for a Partial Response nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progression of Disease (PD); PD, 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions; Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions, From date of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years and 10 months
The Number of Participants With Change in Glycoprotein NMB Expression on Tumor Tissue Via Immunohistochemistry, Target protein expression change from baseline to after 1 cycle of treatment., Baseline to up to 21 days|Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, From consent to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years and 10 months|Number of Participants With Grade 3-4 Adverse Events According to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria Version 4.0, Toxicity will be reported by type, frequency, and severity. Only adverse events toxicity with grade 3-4 severity., through 30 days post-treatment, up to 2 years and 10 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival as measured from time of enrollment to time of death due to any cause., From consent to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years and 10 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the clinical anti-tumor activity of CDX-011 (glembatumumab vedotin) as a single-agent in the treatment of patients with metastatic uveal melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Description of the clinical safety and benefit of CDX-011 (glembatumumab vedotin) and pharmacodynamics changes in glycoprotein NMB (glycoprotein \[transmembrane\] NMB) (GPNMB) expression.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterization of the anti-tumor immunophenotype of patients receiving treatment.

II. Post hoc, correlation of rash with clinical benefit, or lack of rash with lack of benefit, will also be explored.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive glembatumumab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.