Inflammatory Index as a Predictor for Endometrial Cancer: an Observational Study
It is a prospective observational trial. Primary goal is identification of an association between alteration of systemic inflammation indices, such as neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-t- lymphocyte ratio (PLR), lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (MRL) and patients risk classification according to European Guidelines.

The population is represented by all women being admitted to the Gynecology Ward, through Emergency, who are affected by endometrial cancer. Participants will undergo surgery, and freely express their consent to participate in the study.
Endometrial Neoplasms|Inflammatory Response
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Venous blood sample|OTHER: Surgical staging of endometrial cancer
Grading, Anatomic pathology report of cell anaplasia in the sampled tumor, 30 days after surgery|Staging, Anatomic pathology report of extent to which the cancer has spread, 30 days after surgery|Histotype, Anatomic pathology report of tissue types that arise during the growth of cancer, 30 days after surgery|Lymphovascular space invasion, Prognostic factor for recurrence and survival in endometrial cancer, 30 days after surgery|Molecular profile, Biomarker testing of genes and/or proteins, 30 days after surgery
Surgical treatment for endometrial cancer is class A radical hysterectomy according to Querleu-Morrow and bilateral adnexectomy with systematic pelvic lymphadenectomy. That allows the choice of adjuvant treatment, basing on anatomopathological risk information. Despite the standardization of adjuvant treatments, survival curves are heterogeneous in patients' responses. That is why European guide-lines have proposed a stratification of patients basing on oncological risk and molecular data (Microsatellite instability, aberrant P53, POLE gene mutation). The Investigators want to identify additional parameters to better define risk profiles. Systemic inflammation indices such as neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) and lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (LMR) have shown prognostic value in several inflammatory conditions and solid tumors. Therefore, the Investigators have decided to explore their role also in recently diagnosed endometrial cancers, to find correlations with lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI), myometrial infiltration, histotype, and therefore with oncological risk classification. It is a prospective observational trial. Primary goal is identification of an association between alteration of systemic inflammation indices, such as neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), platelet-t- lymphocyte ratio (PLR), lymphocyte-to-monocyte ratio (MRL) and patients risk classification according to European Guidelines.

The population is represented by all women being admitted to the Gynecology Ward, through Emergency, who are affected by endometrial cancer. Participants will undergo surgery, and freely express their consent to participate in the study.