Veliparib With or Without Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Stage III or IV Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well veliparib with or without carboplatin works in treating patients with stage III or IV breast cancer. Veliparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether veliparib is more effective with or without carboplatin in treating breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Unresectable Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Veliparib
Response rate, Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1., Up to 13 years|Post-progression response rate (Phase II), Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. Post-progression response (when patients receive the combination) will also be summarized., Up to 13 years
Progression-free survival (Phase II), Compared between arms using the log-rank test. Analyzed using Kaplan-Meier plots and multivariate Cox regression., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 13 years|Second progression-free survival (Phase II), Compared between arms using the log-rank test. Analyzed using Kaplan-Meier plots and multivariate Cox regression. Second progression-free survival data (when patients receive the combination) will also be summarized., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 13 years|Incidence of adverse events, Graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 and 5.0. Assessed and summarized with descriptive statistics., Up to 13 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of single agent veliparib (ABT-888) (NSC 737664) in breast cancer (BRCA) carriers with metastatic breast cancer based on response rate (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To conduct subset analysis on BRCA1 versus (vs.) BRCA2 and hormone receptor status.

II. To evaluate progression-free survival of patients on single-agent ABT-888. III. To further describe the safety and tolerability of ABT-888 (NSC 737664) as a single agent and in combination with carboplatin for BRCA-associated breast cancer.

IV. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of ABT-888 (NSC 737664) alone and in combination with carboplatin.

V. To assess the relationship between the level of poly adenosine diphosphate (ADP) ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibition by ABT-888 and biomarkers of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC's) and in tumor.

VI. To explore the relationship between biomarkers of drug effect and progression-free survival.

VII. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of the combination of carboplatin and ABT-888 in patients who have failed single agent ABT-888.

VIII. To conduct subset analysis on BRCA1 vs. BRCA2 and hormone receptor status.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 phases.

SAFETY LEAD-IN PHASE: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 of each cycle and carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and may optionally undergo biopsies throughout the study. Patients undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

PHASE II: Patients receive veliparib PO BID on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Upon progression, patients are taken off treatment for 1 week and may then continue to recieve veliparib along with carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT or MRI and may optionally undergo biopsies throughout the study. Patients undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

\* As of the November 9, 2023 amendment, the pharmaceutical collaborator has discontinued the ABT-888 development program with the National Cancer Institute Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP). Clinical supply will no longer be available after December 31, 2024. Patients will discontinue treatment by December 31, 2024, or earlier.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.