Cemiplimab in Treating Patients With Recurrent and Resectable Stage II-IV Head and Neck Cutaneous Squamous Cell Cancer Before Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well cemiplimab works before surgery in treating patients with stage II-IV head and neck cutaneous squamous cell cancer that has come back (recurrent) and can be removed by surgery (resectable). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as cemiplimab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Recurrent Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Resectable Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Stage II Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage III Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8|Stage IV Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab
Overall response rate, Will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1., Up to 6 weeks
Time to recurrence, The distribution of time-to-event endpoints will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test., Up to 5 years|Patterns of failure, Summary statistics will be provided for continuous variables., Up to 5 years|Disease-specific survival, Frequency tables will be used to summarize categorical variables., Up to 2 years|Disease-free survival, The distribution of time-to-event endpoints will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test., Up to 5 years|Overall survival, The distribution of time-to-event endpoints will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test., Up to 5 years
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 criteria to neoadjuvant cemiplimab (REGN2810) in patients with stage II-IV cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) of the head and neck who are planned for definitive local surgery with or without radiation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pathologic response rate to neoadjuvant REGN2810 in patients with stage II-IV cSCC of the head and neck.

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of neoadjuvant REGN2810 in patients with stage II-IV cSCC of the head and neck who are planned for definitive local surgery and radiation.

III. To estimate the 2-year disease-specific (DSS), disease-free (DFS) and overall survival (OS) compared to historical controls.

IV. To determine the time to recurrence and patterns of failure.

V. To evaluate the effects of neoadjuvant REGN2810 on the expression of PD-1 and potential related immune regulating targets in cSCC of the head and neck.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cemiplimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 3 weeks. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 6 weeks with or without radiation therapy at the discretion of the treating physician in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then periodically for up to 5 years.