Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy With PD-1 Inhibitors Combined With SIB-IMRT in the Treatment of Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tislelizumab combined with simultaneous integrated boost intensity-modulated radiotherapy in treating locally advanced rectal cancer. To explore a new PD-1 inhibitor adjuvant chemotherapy model combined with radiotherapy to treat locally advanced rectal cancer.
Rectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Tislelizumab|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|RADIATION: SIB-IMRT|RADIATION: IMRT
Complete response rate, Include in pathological complete response rate and clinical complete response rate. MRI/CT will be used for evaluating the carcinoma status. Pathological complete response rate will be evaluated by surgery., 12 weeks~18 weeks
Side effects, Myelosuppression, radiation enteritis, radiothermitis, 6monthes, 3years|Overall survival, OS was calculated from the date of entry into the study to the date of death or the last follow-up visit., 3 years|Disease free survival, DFS was calculated from the date of entry into the study to the date of the time from the beginning of randomization to the disease recurrence or progression or death from any cause., 3 years
This is a randomized controlled trial (RCT). Patients with T3-4 in the 8th AJCC stage or positive regional lymph nodes and no distant metastases will be enrolled. Forty-eight patients will be enrolled by inclusion and exclusion criteria. The enrolled patients will be randomly divided into experimental and control groups (twenty-four patients for each group) to receive preoperative neoadjuvant therapy. The experimental group will receive concurrent simultaneous integrated boost intensity-modulated radiotherapy (SIB-IMRT) and concurrent capecitabine chemotherapy, and complete 2 \~ 4 cycles of XELOX chemotherapy, while receiving complete tislelizumab treatment for at least 4 cycles (21 days per cycle). The control group received intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) without tirellizumab, and the other treatment regiments were consistent with the experimental group. The tumor size will be measured in MRI or CT images, and side effects will be recorded. The primary outcome was CR rate (pathological complete response rate and clinical complete response rate), and secondary outcomes were side effects and 3-year OS and DFS.