LEE011 for Patients With CDK4/6 Pathway Activated Tumors (SIGNATURE)
The purpose of this signal seeking study was to determine whether treatment with LEE011 demonstrates sufficient efficacy in CDK4/6 pathway activated solid tumors and/or hematologic malignancies to warrant further study.
Tumors With CDK4/6 Pathway Activation
DRUG: LEE011
Number of Participants With Solid Tumor Response ≥ 16 Weeks for Based Upon Local Investigator Assessments, Clinical benefit (CB) for patients with solid tumors were assessed using RECIST 1.1 and included responses of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) for ≥ 16 weeks. CR and PR (for solid tumors) required a confirmation at least 4 weeks after the initial response observation. For hematologic tumors other appropriate hematological response criteria was applied. CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm, PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, SD=Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study, PD=At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions and also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. FAS, Baseline up ≥16 weeks up to approximately 36 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) of ≥ 16 Weeks FAS, CBR was determined by local, Investigator assessment for each tumor assessment and defined as responses of CR + PR + SD for ≥ 16 weeks. CR and PR (for solid tumors) required a confirmation at least 4 weeks after the initial response observation. For hematologic tumors other appropriate hematological response criteria was applied. CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have had reduction in short axis to \<10 mm, PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, SD=Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study, PD=At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions and also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm FAS, Baseline and ≥ 16 weeks up to approximately 36 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) ≥ 16 Weeks. FAS, ORR was determined by local, Investigator assessment for each tumor assessment and defined as responses of CR+PR ≥ 16 weeks. FAS, Baseline and ≥ 16 weeks up to approximately 36 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is the time from the date of start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause within 30 days of the last dose. If a subject has not had an event, progression-free survival is censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment. Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression), Every 8 weeks until death, assessed up to 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), Number of participants Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death due to any cause., Baseline up to approximately 36 months|Number of Days for Duration of Response for Responders, Duration of response (DOR) is defined as time from the first documented response to the date first documented disease progression or relapse or death due to any cause. For patients with solid tumors the assessment criteria will be RECIST 1.1 and will include responses of CR and/or PR., Baseline up to approximately 36 months
The purpose of this signal seeking study was to determine whether treatment with LEE011 demonstrates sufficient efficacy in CDK4/6 pathway activated solid tumors and/or hematologic malignancies to warrant further study.