A Retrospective Real-world Study of Abemaciclib in HR+ Breast Cancer
The present study will assess real-world clinical outcomes, adverse events and economics from treatment with endocrine therapy(ET) combined with abemaciclib in patients with hormone receptor-positive(HR+) breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Neoplasms|Breast Diseases
DRUG: Abemaciclib and Letrozole/Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole or Anastrozole|DRUG: Abemaciclib and Fulvestrant|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Progression-free survival(PFS), The time from treatment initiation to either the first documented disease progression or death from any cause., Through the completion of the study, for an average of 6 months
Objective Remission Rate(ORR), The proportion of patients who achieved pre-defined tumor volume reduction and maintained the minimum time limit was the sum of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) proportions., Up to 36 months|Disease Control Rate(DCR), The number of patients who achieved complete response(CR),partial response (PR) and stable lesion (SD) after treatment as a percentage of the evaluable cases, Up to 36 months|Toxicity rate, Adverse events from the time from treatment initiation to disease progression, patient death or last recorded, Up to 36 months|Cost-utility analysis(CUA), In health economics the purpose of CUA is to estimate the ratio between the cost of a health-related intervention and the benefit it produces in terms of the number of years lived in full health by the beneficiaries., Up to 36 months
Based on clinical trials data, Abemaciclib has been approved for early and advanced breast cancer with HR+ and human epidermal growth factor 2 receptor-negative(HER2-), but clinical trials require real-world research data as supplementary validation supporting evidence. This study will assess real-world clinical outcomes, adverse events and economics from treatment with endocrine therapy(ET) combined with abemaciclib in patients with HR+ breast cancer. In addition, this trial will explore the efficacy of Abemaciclib in patients with HR+ and human epidermal growth factor 2 receptor-positive(Her2+) breast cancer.

This study will now include real-world data on efficacy, toxicity and economics of abemaciclib in the adjuvant setting in HR+ breast cancer. Participants to be enrolled will come from an online platform for researches which all the privacy information has been controlled. The investigators are going to gather 2 groups of breast-cancer-one-other-study(BCOOS) including BCOOS-A and BCOOS-B. Group BCOOS-A includes the patients treated with Abemaciclib and Letrozole/Anastrozole compared with treated with Letrozole/Anastrozole only. Group BCOOS-B includes the patients treated with Abemaciclib and Fulvestrant compared with treated with Fulvestrant only.

Investigators will measure clinical outcomes, adverse events and economics in each group above.