The Neuro-protective Effects of Exercise in Children With Brain Tumors
The objectives of our proposed study are to (a) evaluate the feasibility of conducting a structured exercise program in children treated with cranial radiation for brain tumors, (b) test whether exercise results in improved thinking skills and emotional function, and (c) examine potential mechanisms of improved outcome, particularly recovery of white matter and grey matter.
Brain Tumor
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Program
Feasibility of implementing an excercise intervention, We will look at several factors, including recruitment rate, exercise adherence rate, retention rate and participant/parent satisfaction to determine the feasability of this intervention, At week 42-45
Fitness, Fitness will be measured using the volume of oxygen consumed while exercising at maximum capacity (VO2max) on a stationary bicycle., Baseline, once at week 26-29 and once at week 42-45|Neuro-cognitive outcome, Three neuro-cognitive processes important for cognitive development, and found to be sensitive to radiation injury, will be assessed. These measures of cognition include attention, information processing speed, and declarative memory., Baseline, once at week 26-29 and once at week 42-45|Neural recovery (gliogenesis/neurogenesis), Changes in white matter integrity may occur as a result of gliogenesis and will be measured using Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI). Neurogenesis occurs primarily within the hippocampus, a structure important for learning a memory. Cerebral blood flow (CBF) has been demonstrated to be a potential surrogate imaging measure of neurogenesis. As such, we will use Arterial Spin Labeled (ASL) perfusion MRI to obtain estimates of CBF within the hippocampus., Baseline, once at week 26-29 and once at week 42-45
Brain tumors are the leading cause of death and disability from childhood disease in developed countries. With treatment advances over the last 25 years, survival rates have improved dramatically. However, survival is often achieved at considerable cost. Cranial radiation is frequently required for effective tumor control, and is associated with significant neuro-toxicity, including white matter damage and cognitive morbidity. In order to achieve the best possible outcome for survivors, and ultimately conquer the long-term consequences of this disease, new interventions must be developed to ameliorate the neuro-toxic effects experienced by children. radiation injury can now be used to guide the development of interventions designed to rescue neural tissue. Furthermore, various new agents and activities with potential to stimulate neuro-recovery are now available. The potential value of exercise for rescuing the brain from neuro-toxic effects, for instance, has recently been reported. Next, neuro-cognitive processes that are particularly sensitive to the effects of cranial radiation have been identified and can serve as behavioral assays to test the effectiveness of these new interventions. Finally, novel neuro-imaging tools are available to perform in vivo evaluations in order to delineate potential mechanisms of neuro-recovery. We intend to integrate these new research findings to develop and evaluate a physical exercise-based intervention targeted at rescuing brain tissue of children with brain tumors from the neuro-toxic impact of cranial radiation.