Pazopanib Versus Temsirolimus in Poor-Risk Clear-Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC)
The goal of this clinical research study is to compare pazopanib to temsirolimus in the treatment of advanced clear-cell renal cell carcinoma. The safety of each drug will also be studied.

Pazopanib is designed to block the growth of blood vessels that supply nutrients needed for tumor growth. This may prevent or slow the growth of cancer cells.

Temsirolimus is designed to block the growth of cancer cells, which may cause cancer cells to die.

This is an investigational study. Pazopanib and temsirolimus are both FDA approved and commercially available for the treatment of kidney cancer. It is investigational to compare the 2 drugs.

Up to 90 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
Kidney Cancer
DRUG: Pazopanib|DRUG: Temsirolimus|BEHAVIORAL: Quality of Life Assessment|DRUG: Benadryl
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is measured from the initiation of treatment to the time of first disease progression or death due to any reason during the first drug administration in each arm. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% or more increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion or the appearance of new lesions. The PFS median of first drug pazopanib (treatment group) was compared to the PFS median of first drug temsirolimus (control group) in an adjusted Hazard ratio. The hazard ratio compares events from a treatment group to a control group. If the hazard ratio is greater than 1the treatment group performed better. If the hazard ratio is less than 1 the control group performed better. If the hazard ratio is equal to 1, then the groups performed equally., Measured form start of treatment up to 3 years
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is calculated from day of therapy initiation of the first administrated drug to the date of death. Kaplan-Meier estimator used to estimate the OS for each group of participants. The Overall Survival median of first drug pazopanib (treatment group) was compared to the Overall Survival median of first drug temsirolimus (control group) in an adjusted Hazard ratio. The hazard ratio compares events from a treatment group to a control group. If the hazard ratio is greater than 1the treatment group performed better. If the hazard ratio is less than 1 the control group performed better. If the hazard ratio is equal to 1, then the groups performed equally., From the start of treatment up to 6 years or death, whichever came first
Study Groups and Study Drug Administration:

If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. You will have an equal chance of being assigned to either group.

* If you are assigned to Group 1, you will take pazopanib by mouth 1 time every day at about the same time each day on an empty stomach (at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal).
* If you are assigned to Group 2, you will receive temsirolimus by vein 1 time every week over 30-60 minutes. About 30 minutes before you receive each dose of temsirolimus, you will receive Benadryl (diphenhydramine) by vein over 1-2 minutes to help lower the risk of side effects.

If you are assigned to Group 1, do not crush tablets and do not repeat missed doses if it is less than 12 hours until your next scheduled dose. You will be given a pill diary to record when you take each dose. You will return the diary to the study doctor at each study visit.

If you have any side effects, you should tell the study doctor right away. If the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest, your dose may be lowered.

If the disease gets worse while you are on study, you will have the option to change to the study group you were not originally assigned to and take the other study drug. The study drug dosing and study visit schedule will be the same, and the study doctor will discuss any important details with you at the time you change study groups.

Study Visits:

Every 4 weeks on this study is called a study cycle.

Every week during Cycle 1 (Group 1 only), your blood pressure will be checked (either at home, at the clinic, or by your local doctor). If you are checking your own blood pressure at home, you will need to write down your blood pressure in a blood pressure diary each time you check it and bring the diary with you to each clinic visit.

Every 2 weeks for the first 2 cycles (Group 1 only) , blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

Every week (Group 2 only), blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

Every cycle (Group 2 only) OR Every other cycle (Group 1 only):

* You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.
* You will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving.
* You will be asked about any side effects you may have had.
* Blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be collected for routine tests.

On Day 1 of Cycle 2, Day 1 of Cycle 4, and every 4 cycles after that (Group 1 only), you will have an ECG to check your heart function.

If you are in Group 2 only, on Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, and every other cycle after that (Cycles 5, 7, 9, and so on), blood (about 3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You will be asked to fast (eat nothing and drink only water) for at least 8 hours before those blood draws.

Every 2 cycles:

* You will have the same imaging scans that you had at screening. After 1 year on treatment, these imaging scans may only be done every 3 cycles (Cycles 5, 8, 11, and so on).
* You will fill out the quality-of-life questionnaires.
* Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for tests to check your thyroid function (Group 1 only).
* Urine will be collected for routine tests.

Every 4 cycles, you will have an ECG (Group 2 only).

Every 6 cycles, you will have an ECHO or MUGA scan to check your heart function.

Length of Study:

You may continue taking the study drug for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best interest. You will no longer be able to take a study drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

End-of-Treatment Follow- up:

About 30 days after you stop treatment, during a clinic visit or by phone, you will be asked about any drugs or treatments you may be receiving and any side effects you may have had.

Long-Term Follow-up:

After you stop taking the study drug, the study staff will check up on you to ask how you are doing about every 3 months from then on. The study staff will collect the information they need either from your medical records or by calling you. If you are contacted by phone, the call should only last about 5 minutes.