Lenalidomide, Umbralisib, and Ublituximab for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma or Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the safety and how effective the combination of ublituximab, umbralisib, and lenalidomide is in certain types of indolent (slow-growing) non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or mantle cell lymphoma. Lenalidomide may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Lenalidomide may also stop the growth of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma by blocking blood flow to the cancer. Umbralisib is designed to block a protein called PI3 kinase in order to stop cancer growth and cause changes in the immune system that may allow the immune system to better act against cancer cells. Ublituximab is an antibody that attaches to the lymphoma cells and triggers immune reactions that may result in the death of the targeted lymphoma cells.
Recurrent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia|Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Extranodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma of Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Ublituximab|DRUG: Umbralisib
Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), Up to completion of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)
Duration of overall response, Will be estimated using frequency with exact 95% confidence intervals assuming binomial distribution., From the time measurement criteria are met for complete response or partial response (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 2 years|Overall response rate, Defined as best response achieved during treatment (complete response or partial response). Will be estimated using frequency with exact 95% confidence intervals assuming binomial distribution., Up to 2 years|Time to treatment failure, From study entry to discontinuation of treatment for any reason including disease progression, treatment toxicity, and death, assessed up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the start of treatment to death or censor at the last follow up, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and toxicity of lenalidomide, umbralisib and ublituximab in patients with relapsed or refractory indolent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (iNHL) or mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the overall response rate (ORR) for patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) treated at the RP2D.

II. Determine duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), time to treatment failure and overall survival (OS) for patients with relapsed or refractory FL treated at the RP2D.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide and umbralisib.

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and umbralisib PO QD on days 1-28. Beginning in cycle 2, patients also receive ublituximab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes to 4 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a partial or complete response after cycle 6 continue treatment of lenalidomide PO QD and umbralisib PO QD for 12 additional cycles, and ublituximab IV on day 1 of subsequent even cycles (8, 10, 12, 14, 16, and 18). Patients with stable disease after cycle 6 may continue on treatment for an additional 12 cycles at the discretion of the investigator.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 8 weeks, and then every 6 months for 2 years.