Chemoimmunotherapy and Radiation in Pancreatic Cancer
The goal of this study is to evaluate the safety of combination treatment that includes chemotherapy, radiation therapy, and immunotherapy in patients with pancreatic cancer.
Locally Advanced Malignant Neoplasm
DRUG: Tadalafil|DRUG: Gemcitabine|RADIATION: Radiation|PROCEDURE: Pancreaticoduodenectomy
Safety, Patients will return be seen in the clinic 8 times over the first 50 days for an evaluation of adverse events and toxicities before being evaluated for surgery. Patients who are not candidates for surgery will be seen in clinic 10 more times over the next 85 days for safety evaluations, and patients who have surgery will be seen 10 times over the 85 days following recovery from surgery for safety evaluations., 135 Days
Immune Infiltration in pancreaticoduodenectomy tissue, For surgery patients, formalin fixed and paraffin-embedded tumor tissue obtained during surgery will be sectioned and immunohistology performed to determine the tumor inflammatory micro-environment and the degree of macrophage and T cell inflammation., 50 Days|Quantification of T cells in peripheral blood pre- and post-treatment, Patients will provide a pre-treatment blood sample and 4 blood samples over 135 days to evaluate the influence of the study treatment on immune parameters. For patients who have surgery, the time period will be longer depending on their recovery time. Post-treatment long term follow up will occur every 12 weeks (+/- 2 weeks) beyond post-recovery date (PRD) 85 for 6 visits. Blood will be collected for immune monitoring at each visit., 135 Days
This study is for borderline resectable and advanced pancreatic cancer patients. Patients will receive chemotherapy with gemcitabine and immunotherapy with daily tadalafil during the first 21 days of treatment. On study day 22, patients will receive the first of three planned doses of radiation therapy and continue daily tadalafil. Patients are then evaluated to determine if they are candidates for pancreaticoduodenectomy. Patients who are not candidates will continue daily tadalafil and receive gemcitabine chemotherapy. Patients who have surgery will resume daily tadalafil and gemcitabine chemotherapy following recovery from surgery. Patients will receive up to four cycles of gemcitabine.