Futibatinib in Combination With (Chemo)Immunotherapy in Colorectal Cancer and Other Solid Tumor Entities
The FUTURE trial is a prospective, multicentre, exploratory, open-label phase II platform trial. Its goal is to evaluate the efficacy, feasibility and safety of futibatinib combined with immunotherapeutic, targeted or chemotherapeutic agents in colorectal and other solid tumors and to additionally identify biomarkers that correlate with clinical outcome.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Futibatinib orally administered|DRUG: Tislelizumab (i.v. 200mg)
Overall Response Rate (ORR) according to RECIST v1.1, ORR, defined as rate of patient who achieved complete or partial response (CR+PR) according to RECIST v1.1 as best response, up to 27 months
Duration of Response (DoR), (DoR), defined as time from response initiation (when either CR or PR is first determined) to date of progression or death to any cause, up to 27 months|Progression-free survival (PFS) according to RECIST v1.1, defined as time from date of enrollment to date of progression acc. to RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, every 8 weeks until disease progression, up to 27 months|Overall Survival (OS), time from date of enrollment date of death due to any cause, up to 27 months|Safety, assessment of safety of the treatment as determined by the incidence, nature, causality, frequency, timing and severity of adverse events using NCI CTCAE 5.0, AEs will be reported from start of trial treatment until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment or until initiation of another anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first, up to 13 months
Identifcation of molecular biomarkers, to perform correlation analysis between selected molecular parameters and clinical data to identify molecular biomarkers predictive for clinical outcome, 27 months
For the FUTURE-001 cohort:

All enrolled patients will take mFOLFOX 85 mg/m2 oxalipla n, 200 mg/m2 calcium folinate, 400 mg/m2 5-ﬂuorouracil as bolus dose and 2400 mg/m2 5-ﬂuorouracil as 48 h-infusion as standard chemotherapy on day 1, 15 and 29 of a 6-week cycle. Additionally, tislelizumab (i.v., 200 mg) is applied on day 1 and day 22. Futibatinib will be taken orally, once daily, continously. All patients enrolled will receive the study treatment for up to 12 months or until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or patient's request or investigator's decision, whatever occurs first.

The primary objective is to evaluate the efficacy (primary endpoint: Overall Response Rate ORR, complete response + partial response) of futibatinib plus tislelizumab and chemotherapy in 1st-linetreatment of patients with colorectal cancer. The secondary objective is to evaluate further efficacy (duration of response (DoR, Progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS)) as well as to assess safety and impact on the patients quality of life. Additionally, a correlation analysis between selected molecular parameters and clinical data to identify molecular biomarkers predictive for clinical outcome will be performed.

33 patients will be enrolled in this trial.