Interaction Between Host, Microenvironment and Immunity on Gastrointestinal Neoplasms
The primary objective: association study of characteristics of tumoral microenvironment and immunity of digestive cancers with patients' overall survival (OS).
Gastrointestinal Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Blood sampling|PROCEDURE: Liver biopsy|BIOLOGICAL: Stool collect
Overall survival (OS), The OS is defined as timeframe between beginning of treatment (date of surgery or 1st cure of chemotherapy/immunotherapy) and death (regardless of reason)., monthly up to 3 months|Overall survival (OS), The OS is defined as timeframe between beginning of treatment (date of surgery or 1st cure of chemotherapy/immunotherapy) and death (regardless of reason)., yearly up to 10 years
Survival without disease (SWD), The SWD is defined as timeframe between date of surgical treatment and appearance of cancer relapse, 2nd cancer diagnosis or death (regardless reason)., at month 1, 2 and 3, then yearly up to 10 years|Survival without progression (SWP), The SWP is defined as timeframe between the beginning of treatment (date of 1st cure of chemotherapy/immunotherapy or date of 1st session of radiotherapy) and the 1st progression or death (regardless reason).

The response of tumor will be evaluated according to the RECIST v1.1, Choi (intra-arterial treatments, antiangiogenic therapy) and/or iRECIST (immunotherapies) and/or imaging examinations depending on the given treatments., at month 1, 2 and 3, then yearly up to 10 years
The study aims to explore relationship between the molecular subgroups (DNA and RNA analysis), tumor microenvironment, host (immunity system, premetastatic niche, microbiota, metabolism) and survival (prognostic value), response (predictive value) and tolerance (toxicities) to conventional treatments or immunotherapies in digestive cancers, in particular, in colorectal cancer and pancreaticobiliary cancer.

This is a prognostic monocentric study which includes 2 parts:

* one retrospective observational cohort for which 150 eligible patients (who have being diagnosed between 1998 to 2020) will be entered in the cohort per year during 22 years targeting 3300 patients and
* one prospective interventional cohort in which 3000 patients (diagnosis will be done between 2020-2030) will be enrolled during 10 years. 10 years of follow-up for all patients. This cohort is non comparative, non randomized, non control.

The enrollment will last 10 years in Digestive Surgery Department, Ambroise Paré Hospital, APHP.

There is any change in management of patients' care who will participate to the study, all of the treatment modalities (i.e. surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, immunotherapy, intra-arterial treatments and supportive care) are possible and choice of treatment will be made by investigator physician, after multidisciplinary meeting validation, and according to referential and recommendations of practice in department.

Statistic analysis

The statistic analysis will be performed and reported according to the international guidelines STROBE for the observational studies.