Study of Tumor-shrinking Decoction (TSD) to Treat Symptomatic Uterine Fibroids
On the basis of empirical evidence and clinical practice, the investigators have developed a formula called Tumor-shrinking Decoction (TSD) used in the treatment of uterine fibroids (UFs). The investigators preliminary clinical observation has demonstrated the benefits of TSD in improving UFs.

TSD is composed of 15 individual Chinese medicines: Astragalus Membranaceus, Semen Coicis, Poria, Curcuma longa L, and Fritillaria Thunbergii Miq, Cassia twig, Pollen typhae, Resina draconis, Lithospermum erythrorhizon, Halloysitum Rubrum, Rhizoma Corydalis processed with vinegar, Hirudo, Calcined corrugated sub , Oyster Shell and Laminaria Japonica Aresch.

It is hypothesized that TSD can effectively reduce the fibroid size and improve the symptoms associated with UFs and the greater anti-tumor potency of TSD is associated with higher therapeutic doses.

To test this hypothesis, one 16-week, double-blind, randomized, two-dose trial will be conducted in patients with symptomatic UFs to determine whether the high dose (217 g/day) of TSD could produce significantly greater effects in reducing the fibroid size and improving its related symptoms and biochemical profiles compared to the lower dose (69 g/day).
Leiomyoma
DRUG: TSD
Changes in the symptom severity score of Uterine Fibroid Symptom and Quality of Life questionnaire (UFS-QOL) from Baseline to 6 months, UFS-QOL consists of 37 items to assess the severity of UFs-related symptoms and the quality of life of patients., Baseline and once per month thereafter; Up to 6 months
Change of clinical response from baseline on the the health-related quality of life of transformed UFS-QOL score, The secondary clinical outcome is the clinical response that is defined as a ≥30% baseline-to-endpoint reduction on the symptom severity of transformed UFS-QOL score., Baseline and once per month thereafter; Up to 6 months|Imaging outcomes, Imaging outcomes will be examined at baseline and endpoint using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan to determine the number, size and density of the uterine fibroids., Baseline, 5th month|Serum concentrations of estrogen and follicle-stimulating hormone, two blood samples will be collected from each patient at baseline and at the end of the study, respectively. The collection of blood will be conducted between 08:00 and 09:00 before meal. Sera will be separated and stored at -20ºC until assayed. Serum concentrations of estrogen, progesterone and follicle-stimulating hormone will be measured using chemiluminescent immunoassay (CLIA)., Baseline, 5th month
Number of Participants with Serious and Non-Serious Adverse Events, Adverse events will be closely monitored at each visit. All adverse events, reported, elicited or observed, will be recorded on case report form, including the date and time of onset, duration, severity, relationship to study drug, and action taken., Up to 6 months
Numerous Chinese medicine preparations have been shown to possess therapeutic potential in relieving uterine fibroids (UFs) symptoms and shrinking the volume of fibroids without significant adverse effects, although the clinical efficacy needs to be further confirmed with rigorously designed.On the basis of empirical evidence and clinical practice, the investigators have developed a formula called Tumor-shrinking Decoction (TSD) used in the treatment of UFs. The investigators preliminary clinical observation has demonstrated the benefits of TSD in improving UFs.

TSD is composed of 15 individual Chinese medicines. According to traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) doctrine, most UFs are developed due to the deficiency of vital energy and the stasis of blood, resulting in the formation of pathological massive tissues. Individual Chinese medicines constituting TSD can be classified into three classes based on TCM-defined pharmacological actions: (i) Tonifying qi and resolve phlegm: Astragalus Membranaceus, Semen Coicis, Poria, Curcuma longa L, and Fritillaria Thunbergii Miq; (ii) Resolve stasis, stopping bleeding and relieve pain: Cassia twig, Pollen typhae, Resina draconis, Lithospermum erythrorhizon, Halloysitum Rubrum, Rhizoma Corydalis processed with vinegar; and (iii) Softening hardness and dissipate binds: Hirudo, Calcined corrugated sub , Oyster Shell and Laminaria Japonica Aresch.

Indeed, the investigators previous studies of cultured cells and animals have revealed that TSD robustly inhibits fibroid cell growth and proliferation. The investigators therefore hypothesize that TSD can effectively reduce the fibroid size and improve the symptoms associated with UFs and the greater anti-tumor potency of TSD is associated with higher therapeutic doses.

To test this hypothesis, one 16-week, double-blind, randomized, two-dose trial will be conducted in patients with symptomatic UFs to determine whether the high dose (217 g/day) of TSD could produce significantly greater effects in reducing the fibroid size and improving its related symptoms and biochemical profiles compared to the lower dose (69 g/day).