Tc99m-MAA Bronchial Artery Injection During Bronchial Embolization for Pulmonary Mass Induced Hemoptysis for Dosimetry Planning
This research study will evaluate the administration of a particle called macro-aggregated albumin (MAA) labelled with the radiotracer technetium 99m (Tc99m) as a proxy to estimate the anticipated dose of radiation to tumor and adjacent structures.

Administration of this labeled MAA will not have a therapeutic benefit on the participant's cancer. Administration will help researchers determine if arterial administration of radiation may be feasible for lung cancer in the future.
Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Tc99m-MAA
Calculation of Tc99m-MAA uptake within the tumor and surrounding structures (radioactivity concentration), 2 years
Number of patients experiencing off-target administration of Tc99m-MAA to distant organs (as assessed by radioactivity concentration assessed in regions of interest in distant extremities, head, abdomen), 2 years|Number of patients experiencing immediate post-procedural adverse events associated with bronchial artery administration of Tc99m-MAA, 2 years
This research study is a Pilot Study, which is the first time investigators are examining this study intervention.

As mentioned above, standard of care treatment for Stage III lung cancer includes chemotherapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy. However, arterial administration of radiation to these tumors may represent an alternative method of radiotherapy, with dose directly administered to the tumor. The potential radiation dose to the tumor and adjacent structures is not known.

This study aims to estimate the dose of radiation to tumor and adjacent structures in the chest via administration of a radiotracer called Tc99m-MAA. Tc99m-MAA is a particle that is used to assess blood flow distribution and has a similar size to the particles that are utilized for arterial delivery of radiation therapy, also called radioembolization. Tc99m-MAA is currently used to estimate radiation dosimetry prior to arterial radiotherapy administration for liver malignancies.

If this study is successful, the results will allow doctors to use the distribution of Tc99m-MAA to estimate radiation dose to tumors and adjacent structures in the setting of intra-arterial radiation therapy. This will provide information to plan future therapy with intra-arterial radioembolization for lung malignancies.