A Study of Apalutamide Combined With GnRH Agonist in Participants With Androgen Receptor Positive Salivary Gland Carcinoma
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) of apalutamide in combination with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist in participants with androgen receptor (AR) expressing locally advanced or recurrent/metastatic salivary gland carcinoma (SGC).
Salivary Gland Neoplasms
DRUG: Apalutamide|DRUG: GnRH Agonist
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of participants who achieve partial response (PR) or better according to the response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version1.1, including with either confirmed best overall response of complete response (CR) or PR during the study. CR is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<) 10 millimeters (mm). PR is defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Up to 13 months
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical benefit rate (CBR) was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a confirmed best overall response of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) for at least 24 weeks based on RECIST version 1.1 during the study (and prior to subsequent therapy if any). CR is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. SD defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to 13 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a confirmed best overall response of CR, PR, or SD based on RECIST version 1.1 during the study (and prior to subsequent therapy if any). CR is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. SD defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to 13 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by ICRR, PFS was defined as the time from the date of the initial dose of study intervention to the date of first documented disease progression as defined in the RECIST version 1.1, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to 13 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from the date of the initial dose of study intervention to the date of the participant's death., Up to 13 months|Time to Response (TTR), TTR was defined among responders (with a CR or PR) as the time between date of the initial dose of study intervention and the first efficacy evaluation that the participant had met all criteria for CR or PR. CR is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Up to 13 months|Duration of Response (DoR), DoR calculated among responders from the date of initial documentation of a response (CR or PR) to the date of first documented evidence of progressive disease as defined in RECIST version 1.1 or death, whichever occurred first. CR is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30 % decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Up to 13 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Number of participants with TEAEs were reported. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) for the treatment phase included events with an onset date/time on or after the start of study intervention through the day of last dose plus 30 days were considered as treatment-emergent., Up to 13 months|Plasma Concentration of Apalutamide, Plasma concentration of apalutamide was reported., Day 1 (predose) of Cycles 2 to 6 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Plasma Concentration of N-desmethyl Apalutamide, Plasma concentration of N-desmethyl Apalutamide was reported., Day 1 (predose) of Cycles 2 to 6 (each cycle was of 28 days)
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) of apalutamide in combination with a gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist in participants with androgen receptor (AR) expressing locally advanced or recurrent/metastatic salivary gland carcinoma (SGC).