Dinutuximab, Sargramostim, and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed High-Risk Neuroblastoma
This phase II pilot trial studies the side effects and how well dinutuximab and sargramostim work when combined with chemotherapy in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as dinutuximab, may induce changes in the body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Sargramostim helps the body produce normal infection-fighting white blood cells. These cells also help the dinutuximab work better. Giving chemotherapy before a stem cell transplant, with drugs such as cisplatin, etoposide, vincristine, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, thiotepa, melphalan, etoposide, carboplatin, topotecan, and isotretinoin, helps kill cancer cells that are in the body and helps make room in a patient's bone marrow for new blood-forming cells (stem cells). Giving dinutuximab and sargramostim with combination chemotherapy may work better than combination chemotherapy alone in treating patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.
Ganglioneuroblastoma|High Risk Neuroblastoma
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexrazoxane|BIOLOGICAL: Dinutuximab|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Etoposide|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Isotretinoin|DRUG: Melphalan|BIOLOGICAL: Sargramostim|DRUG: Thiotepa|DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Vincristine
Percentage of Participants With Unacceptable Toxicity, Assessed with National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Assessed by estimation of the combined toxic death and unacceptable toxicity rate during Induction cycles 3-5 together with a 95% confidence interval., Up to the first 5 cycles of treatment|Percentage of Participants Who Are Feasibility "Failure", Feasibility "failures" were defined as patients that did not receive \>= 75% of the planned dinutuximab doses during Induction cycles 3-5. Assessed by estimation of the feasibility "failure" rate together with a 95% confidence interval., Up to the first 5 cycles of treatment
Response Rate, Per the revised INRC, response is comprised by responses in 3 components: primary tumor, soft tissue and bone metastases, and bone marrow. Primary and metastatic soft tissue sites were assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors and MIBG scans or FDG-PET scans if the tumor was MIBG non-avid. Bone marrow was assessed by histology or immunohistochemistry and cytology or immunocytology. Complete response (CR) - All components meet criteria for CR. Partial response (PR) - PR in at least one component and all other components are either CR, minimal disease (in bone marrow), PR (soft tissue or bone) or not involved (NI; no component with progressive disease (PD). Minor response (MR) - PR or CR in at least one component but at least one other component with stable disease; no component with PD. Stable disease (SD) - Stable disease in one component with no better than SD or NI in any other component; no component with PD. Progressive disease (PD) - Any component with PD., Up to the first 5 cycles of treatment|Event-free Survival, Per the revised INRC, progressive disease is: 1) \> 20% increase in the longest diameter of the primary tumor, taking as reference the smallest sum and ¬\> increase of 5 mm in longest dimension, 2) Any new soft tissue lesion detected by CT/MRI that is MIBG avid or FDG-PET avid, 3) Any new soft tissue lesion seen on CT/MRI that is biopsied and found to be neuroblastoma or ganglioneuroblastoma, 4) Any new bone site that is MIBG avid, 5) Any new bone site that is FDG-PET avid and has CT/MRI findings of tumor or is histologically neuroblastoma or ganglioneuroblastoma 6) A metastatic soft tissue site with \> 20% increase in longest diameter, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, and with \> 5mm in sum of diameters of target soft tissue lesions, 7) A relative MIBG score ¬\> 1.2, 8) Bone marrow without tumor infiltration that becomes \>5% tumor infiltration, 9) Bone marrow with tumor infiltration that increases by \> 2-fold and has \> 20% tumor infiltration on reassessment., Up to 1 year|Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate overall survival (OS). OS was defined as the time from study enrollment to death. 1-year OS is provided., Up to 1 year
Incidence of Naturally Occurring Anti-glycan Antibodies, The Incidence of Naturally Occurring Anti-glycan Antibodies was calculated, including placement of a 95% CI on the incidence. In addition, anti-glycan levels prior to the start of Induction therapy and prior to the start of post-Consolidation therapy was compared with Wilcoxon's signed-rank test for paired data., Up to 5 years|Incidence of Natural Killer (NK) Receptor NKp30 Isoforms, Assessed by calculating the incidence of NK receptor NKp30 isoforms, including placement of a 95% CI on the incidence., Up to 5 years|Response of Host Factors, Including Naturally Occurring Anti-glycan Antibodies, KIR/KIR-L Genotyping, Fc Receptor Genotyping, Human Anti-chimeric Antibodies (HACA), Explored with Fisher's exact test for categorical and Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous host factors. Both the presence/absence and level of naturally occurring anti-glycan antibodies was considered. For the KIR/KIR-L analysis, patients were categorized as either matched or mismatched. Patients were grouped into one of the three genotype subgroups of Fc receptor genotyping for that analysis. The presence/absence of HACA, anti-idiotype, and pretreatment anti-therapeutic antibodies (PATA)/anti-allotype antibody was considered for the HACA analysis., Up to 5 years|Immune Environment (Gene Expression; Immune Effector Cells, Activities and Signaling Molecules; Immune Target Expression), The incidence of NK receptor NKp30 isoforms was calculated, including placement of a 95% CI on each incidence rate. Summary statistics were generated for serum cytokine (IL6, CXCL9) levels and gene expression of circulating immune function cells., Up to 5 years|Levels of Circulating GD2 and Tumor Cell GD2 Expression, Assessed by exploring the relationship between response to treatment with \> PR (response vs. non- response) with circulating GD2 levels, and GD2 tumor cell expression following therapy with a Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Changes from baseline were also analyzed., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the feasibility and tolerability of administering ch14.18 (dinutuximab) and sargramostim (GM-CSF) in combination with a multi-agent chemotherapy regimen during cycles 3-5 of the Induction phase for patients with newly-diagnosed high-risk neuroblastoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe the response rates, event-free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients receiving the combination of standard Induction chemotherapy and ch14.18 (dinutuximab) followed by tandem transplant, radiation therapy, and post-consolidation immunotherapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the clinical relevance of naturally occurring anti-glycan antibodies in patients receiving ch14.18 (dinutuximab).

II. To describe the clinical relevance of natural killer (NK) receptor NKp30 isoforms in patients receiving ch14.18 (dinutuximab).

III. To describe the association between host factors, including human anti-chimeric antibodies (HACA), and response to protocol therapy.

IV. To describe the immune environment (gene expression; immune effector cells, activities and signaling molecules; immune target expression) during and following treatment.

V. To describe the association between levels of circulating GD2, and tumor cell GD2 expression with response to therapy.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION CYCLES 1-2 (21 days): Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes and topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

INDUCTION CYCLE 3: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1-3, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) on day 6 or 7 of a 21-day cycle.

INDUCTION CYCLE 4: Patients receive vincristine IV over 1 minute on day 1, doxorubicin IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1-2, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-2, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim SC on day 6 or 7 of a 21-day cycle.

INDUCTION CYCLE 5: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1-3, etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1-3, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 2-5, and sargramostim SC on day 6 or 7 of a 21-day cycle.

Patients may undergo surgery after the fourth or fifth cycle of Induction at the discretion of treating doctor. Patients with stable disease or better tumor response at the end of Induction proceed to Consolidation. Consolidation treatment begins between 4 and 6 weeks from the start date of Induction chemotherapy cycle 5. For patients who have surgical resection delayed until after Induction chemotherapy cycle 5, Consolidation starts within 4 weeks from the date of surgery.

CONSOLIDATION #1: Patients receive thiotepa IV over 2 hours on days -7 to -5 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -5 to -2. Patients then undergo autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) on day 0.

CONSOLIDATION #2: Patients receive melphalan IV over 30 minutes on days -7 to -5, etoposide IV over 24 hours on days -7 to -4, and carboplatin IV over 24 hours on days -7 to -4. Patients then undergo ASCT on day 0.

RADIATION THERAPY: Beginning 42-80 days following Consolidation #2, patients receive external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) daily for up to 20 days.

Patients then receive post-Consolidation therapy starting at least 1 week following radiation therapy.

POST-CONSOLIDATION CYCLES 1-5: Patients receive sargramostim SC on days 1-14, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours on days 4-7, and isotretinoin orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 11-24. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

POST-CONSOLIDATION CYCLE 6: Patients receive isotretinoin PO BID on days 15-28 of a 28-day cycle.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at months 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54, and 60.