Treatment Of Metastatic Bladder Cancer at the Time Of Biochemical reLApse Following Radical Cystectomy
Immunotherapy (checkpoint inhibitors) is approved as first and second line treatment to patients with metastatic bladder cancer. However, response rates are low and no biomarkers have yet shown strong predictive value for patient selection. Moreover, the term 'metastatic' is based on metastases visible on conventional CT scans and, thus, require a certain size of tumour load. Clinical trials are currently being conducted that investigate the use of adjuvant immunotherapy for this group of patients (treatment to all), which will result in massive over-treatment and huge costs to the healthcare system.

This project has the primary objective to identify new indications for initiating immunotherapy in patients with metastatic bladder cancer. Sensitive molecular techniques for detection of tumor DNA in the blood will be used to identify patients with early signs of metastatic disease. In addition, comprehensive biomarker analysis will be performed to identify predictors of treatment response.
Bladder Cancer|Bladder Cancer, Metastatic
DRUG: Atezolizumab
Complete response (CR) after treatment with investigational agent initiated by ctDNA positive status after radical cystectomy (with or without concomitant visible metastases on CT)., CR in the current study is defined as ctDNA negative status combined with regular imaging (CT) after treatment. Thus, any metastasis visible on CT at the time of treatment initiation should undergo complete response. In Study Subjects without visible metastasis on CT at the time of treatment, initiation should result in unchanged status on CT.

Data will be compared to available historical data on response to PD-1 / PD-L1 targeted agents., Time from treatment initiation with investigational agent until 12 months after initiation
Duration of freedom from clinical relapse in Study Subjects showing decrease or stabilization of ctDNA level after treatment with investigational agent, Time from initiation of therapy until response, 12 months|Overall survival after cystectomy in Study Subjects having biochemical relapse, Percentage, 5 years|Cancer specific survival after cystectomy in Study Subjects having biochemical relapse, Percentage, 5 years|Recurrence free survival after cystectomy in Study Subjects having biochemical relapse, Percentage, 5 years|Cancer specific survival after cystectomy in Study Subjects having biochemical relapse stratified for potential predictive biomarkers for response to treatment, Percentage, 5 years|Response rate to investigated agent stratified for PD-L1 expression and other predictive biomarkers like TMB, immune cell infiltration, tumor subtypes etc., Percentage, 12 months|Time to recurrence seen on imaging (symptomatic or asymptomatic), Percentage, 5 years
The study aim at investigate the response rate and oncological outcome of systemic immunotherapy (PDL-1 inhibitor; atezolizumab) administered early at the time of biochemical relapse (circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) positive) in patients who have undergone radical cystectomy because of muscle invasive bladder cancer.

Biomarkers that predict response to systemic immunotherapy will be identified by comprehensive multi-omics analysis of primary tumors and metastatic lesions. Furthermore, we will determine if ctDNA levels during therapy can be used as a biomarker for early indication of therapy response.

The hypotheses is that 1) early initiation of immunotherapy in high-risk (ctDNA positive) patients will result in better response rates and improved survival compared to later treatment following conventional imaging diagnosis of metastasis, and 2) biomarkers for predicting response can be identified and used for tailoring treatment regimens in the future to patients at high risk and at high likelihood of response.