CyberKnife® as Monotherapy or Boost SBRT for Intermediate or High Risk Localized Prostate Cancer
The primary objective of this study is to document the effectiveness of Cyberknife stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) in the treatment of intermediate and high-risk localized prostate cancer defined by biochemical Disease-Free Survival (bDFS), using Phoenix and American Society of Therapeutic Radiation and Oncology (ASTRO) definitions, at 5 years.

During the prostate-specific antigen era, an ever-increasing percentage of men with prostate cancer have presented with clinically localized, potentially curable disease. Although conventional treatment options are potentially curative in selected patients, these treatments also have drawbacks, including the risk of negative long-term quality of life consequences and serious complications.

The CyberKnife® system is a type of radiation machine that uses a special system to precisely focus large doses of x-rays on the tumor. The device is designed to concentrate large doses of radiation onto the tumor so that injury from radiation to the nearby normal tissue will be minimal.

Intermediate risk patients will be treated with either CyberKnife® Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) monotherapy or CyberKnife® SBRT boost followed by Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT). High risk patients will be treated with CyberKnife® SBRT boost followed by IMRT. Treatment will last 4-7 days. Patients will complete the QOL questionnaires before treatment. Questionnaires will also be completed during follow-up visits at 1, 3 , 6, 12, 18, 24, 30 and 36 months then every 12 months until year 5.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
RADIATION: CyberKnife|OTHER: Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT)|RADIATION: Intensity Modulated radiation therapy (IMRT)
Biochemical Disease-Free Survival (bDFS), Using Phoenix and ASTRO Definitions, Phoenix definition: Biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer (PCa) after curative radiotherapy defined as a prostate-specific antigen (PSA) rise of ≥2 ng/ml above the nadir.

Astro definition: Biochemical failure in prostate cancer defined as three consecutive rises in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after a nadir., 3 years
Measure the Rates of Acute and Late Grade 3-5 Gastrointestinal and Genitourinary Toxicity, Acute toxicity is graded based upon Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v3.0 is a standardized system used to classify and grade the severity of adverse events (AEs) experienced by cancer patients during treatment, with a grading scale ranging from 1 (mild) to 5 (death)., 3 years|Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite Epic-26, The 26-item version of EPIC, also known as EPIC Short Form or EPIC-26, contains five symptom domains (urinary incontinence, urinary irritative/obstructive, sexual, bowel, hormonal), scored from 0 (worst) to 100 (best)., 3 years
The purpose of this project is to evaluate the efficacy and Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) in intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer patients treated with SBRT as monotherapy or as a boost in combination with IMRT.