Toripalimab Combined With Anlotinib and SBRT in Patients With Untreated Brain Metastases of Driven Gene-negative NSCLC
The purpose of this study is to explore the efficacy and safety of toripalimab combined with anlotinib and SBRT for non-driver gene mutation untreated brain metastases non-small Cell Lung Cancer.
NSCLC
DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Anlotinib|DRUG: SBRT 7Gy✖️5 QD
Treatment-related adverse events, AEs per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE V5.0), up to 24 month|Intracranial response rate (iORR), Proportion of patients with a complete or partial response in intracranial metastases as measured using RECIST 1.1 criteria (modified for brain metastases - bm RECIST)., 4 weeks after Radiotherapy.
Intracranial progression-free survival (iPFS), Defined as the time from randomisation to progression of intracranial disease or death from any cause., Tumor assesment at 4 weeks and 12 weeks after radiotherapy, and then every 12 weeks, up to 24 months|Local Control Rate (LCR), Local recurrence is defined as the onset or progression of nodular contrast grafting within the resection cavity according to the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases (RANO-BM) criteria., Tumor assesment at 4 weeks and 12 weeks after radiotherapy, and then every 12 weeks, up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time from randomisation to death from any cause, Tumor assesment at 4 weeks and 12 weeks after radiotherapy, and then every 12 weeks, up to 24 months
Brain metastases (BM) develop in 22-54% of NSCLC patients during the disease course. NSCLC patients with BM with a median overall survival (OS) of 2-3 months when treated with systemic corticosteroid alone, and a median OS of 10-12 months when treated with brain radiation therapy. Recently, several studies have reported the benefits of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) for EGFR mutation NSCLC patients with BM. The median OS of EGFR mutation patients with BM significantly improved with TKIs treatment, which ranged from 11.8 to 18.8 months. However, for the EGFR wide-type NSCLC patients with BM, the prognosis remains poor.

JS-001 is the first monoclonal antibody (mAb) against programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) approved by the China Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) into the clinical trails.

Anlotinib hydrochloride is a multi-target receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor that has significant inhibitory activity against angiogenesis related kinases such as VEGFR1/2/3, FGFR1/2/3, and other tumor related kinases such as PDGFR /, C-Kit, Ret, etc. (e.g., Met, FGFR1/2/3).

The previously study (2021 EMSO congress abstract) found that Apatinib, another kind of tyrosine kinase inhibitor that selectively inhibits the VEGFR-2, combined with brain radiation therapy could improve mOS time to 17 months in lung cancer patients with BMs.

Therefore, the investigators initiated this study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of toripalimab combined with anlotinib and SBRT for non-driver gene mutation untreated brain metastases non-small Cell Lung Cancer.