Topical Remetinostat in Treating Patient With Cutaneous Basal Cell Cancer
This phase 2 trial studies how well remetinostat works in treating patients with skin basal cell cancer. Remetinostat may slow the growth of basal cell cancer cells.
Skin Basal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Remetinostat
Overall Response Rate, Overall response is defined as achieving either a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR). Response is based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), as follows.

* CR = tumor lesion becomes undetectable
* PR = ≥30% decrease in total tumor diameter
* Overall response (OR) = CR+PR
* Stable Disease (SD) = decrease in total tumor diameter is \>0% and \<30%
* Progressive Disease (PD) = increase in total tumor diameter Exact binomial 90% confidence intervals (90%) will be computed for OR. The data are reported accord to the per protocol analysis, ie, including lesions for subjects who were \<70% compliant with drug treatment. For subjects who were compliant but dropped out, data from their last study visit will be used if they contribute a biopsy. The analysis population will include the participants who have provided pre-treatment and post-treatment biopsies. The outcome is reported as the percent of tumor lesions that achieve OR, with 90% CI., At 6 weeks
Number of Participants With a Decrease in Expression of the Hedgehog Biomarker Gene GLI1, The effect of topical remetinostat gel 1% on decreasing expression of Hedgehog biomarker gene GLI1 was determined using the RNeasy Fibrous Tissue Mini Kit (Qiagen, Valencia, CA), a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test kit. The levels observed at baseline and after 6 weeks treatment were obtained. The outcome is reported as the number of subjects for whom a decrease in expression of the Hedgehog biomarker gene GLI1 was observed, a number without dispersion., 6 weeks|Adverse Events Contributing to Treatment Discontinuation or Interruption, Adverse events (AEs) contributing to treatment discontinuation or interruption are reported as the number of such events, a number without dispersion., 6 weeks|Participants Who Discontinued Treatment or Had Treatment Interruption, The number of participants who discontinued treatment or experienced treatment interruption within the first 6 weeks of treatment are reported as the number of such participants, a number without dispersion., 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall response rate of basal cell carcinoma (BCC) in subjects at 6 weeks.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Suppression of GLI1 (glioma-associated oncogene) expression in treated BCCs as compared with baseline.

II. Safety assessment of Remetinostat after 6 weeks of topical treatment.

OUTLINE:

Tumors receive Remetinostat topically three times per day (TID) for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 4 weeks.