Vorinostat Dose-escalation After Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation
The objective of this study is to evaluate the maximum tolerated (MTD) of vorinostat used in combination with low-dose azacitidine after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT) for prevention of relapse of childhood myeloid malignancies.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Mixed Phenotype Acute Leukemia|Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Vorinostat|DRUG: Azacitidine Injection
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), The primary outcome of this study is to determine the MTD of vorinostat in combination with low-dose azacitidine, using dose-escalation methodology. This is based on toxicities developed by participants enrolled on the study., 4 months
Dose-limiting toxicities, Rates of side effects from vorinostat will be recorded and described., 4 months|GVHD, Incidence of GVHD will be recorded and described., 1 year|Relapse, Incidence of relapse will be recorded and described, 1 year|Survival, Duration of survival will be recorded and described, 1 year|Immune recovery, Immune profile will be measured monthly for the first year post-transplant., 1 year
Children and adolescents ages 1 to 21 years of age who are undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for a myeloid malignancy (AML, MDS, JMML, MPAL) will be eligible. There are no restrictions on donor type, conditioning, stem cell source, of GVHD prophylaxis approach.

All participants will be treated on a single arm, and will initially receive 2 cycles of standard post-transplant azacitidine at a dose of 32mg/m2/dose IV/subcutnaeous for 5 days, in 28 day cycles. This is considered standard of care.

After tolerance of 2 cycles of azacitidine has been established, patients will be assigned to receive vorinostat orally at different dose levels, depending on the stage of the study. The dose level assignments will be conducted on a standard 3+3 design, whereby dose-escalation is peformed if previous patients tolerated the dose without dose-limiting toxicities, and dose-reduction is performed if dose-limiting toxicities are seen. The starting dose will be 100mg/m2/dose on days 1-7 and 15-21 of each 28 day cycles. This will be in addition to receiving azacitidine at the fixed dose above. In order to start each cycle, participants will be required to meet specific clinical parameters to ensure safety.

The dose of vorinostat between patients will be escalated or de-escalated until criteria for finding the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is reached, and this will complete the study. Participants will continue to receive the prescribed dose of vorinostat for up to 7 cycles (9 total cycles of azacitidine).

Participants are followed for dose-limiting toxicities primarily during the first two course of combined therapy (cycles 3 and 4), but are continued to be tracked until the completion of all potential combined treatment (1 year or 7 combined cycles, whichever is earlier).

Principal aims:

1. To evaluate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vorinostat used in combination with low-dose azacitidine after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT) for childhood myeloid malignancies.

Secondary aims:

1. To describe the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of the vorinostat used in combination with low-dose azacitidine.
2. To describe rates of relapse, transplant related mortality, graft-versus-host disease, and overall survival.
3. To describe the effect of epigenetic modification on lymphocyte reconstitution in the post-alloHCT setting.