Metformin and Insulin to Pancreatic Cancer Related Diabetes (Type 3c)
About 80% of patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma have aberrant fasting blood glucose at the time of diagnosis. The consistent association between pancreatic cancer and diabetes mellitus has long been recognized and even been termed as "chicken and egg". Many reports have found that pancreatic cancer can result in diabetes, which is called type 3c diabetes. New-onset diabetes is commonly observed in pancreatic cancer patients and has been considered as a potential screening sign. Moreover, diabetes has been found as a predictor of poor outcome in pancreatic cancer.

Pancreatic cancer cells have a strong dependence on glucose and they are well-known for their sweet teeth. High glucose is associated with impaired immunologic reaction, intolerability to chemotherapy, radiotherapy and other major treatments, an increased risk of pancreatic surgery. Given the linkage between pancreatic cancer and diabetes or high blood glucose, a clinical trial is needed to validate the effect of metformin and insulin on regulating blood glucose in type 3c diabetes.
Pancretic Cancer|Diabete Mellitus
DRUG: Metformin or insulin treatment
Blood glucose control rate, Blood glucose control rate before and after anti-diabetic administration, 1 week
HbA1C control rate, HbA1C control rate before and after anti-diabetic administration, 1 week
Change in serum Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) From Baseline to Day 8., Change of tumor biomarkers before and after anti-diabetic administration.Patients will collect CA19-9 values on the day of enrollment and on day 8., 1 week|Overall survival，OS, OS of subjects from recruiting to the time of death from any cause, At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
About 80% of patients with pancreatic adenocarcinoma have aberrant fasting blood glucose at the time of diagnosis. The consistent association between pancreatic cancer and diabetes mellitus has long been recognized and even been termed as "chicken and egg". Many reports have found that pancreatic cancer can result in diabetes, which is called type 3c diabetes. New-onset diabetes is commonly observed in pancreatic cancer patients and has been considered as a potential screening sign. Moreover, diabetes has been found as a predictor of poor outcome in pancreatic cancer.

Pancreatic cancer cells have a strong dependence on glucose and they are well-known for their sweet teeth. High glucose is associated with impaired immunologic reaction, intolerability to chemotherapy, radiotherapy and other major treatments, an increased risk of pancreatic surgery. Given the linkage between pancreatic cancer and diabetes or high blood glucose, a clinical trial is needed to validate the effect of metformin and insulin on regulating blood glucose in type 3c diabetes.