Correlation Between Pre-transplant ICI Exposure and Post-transplant Graft Rejection
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have revolutionized the treatment of advanced HCC. The combination of the ICI and other treatment regimens (Anti-VEGF, locoregional therapies et al) produced superior results in patients with advanced-stage HCC compared to those treated with traditional therapeutic regimens. Liver transplantation (LT) offers excellent long-term outcomes for certain patients with HCC. However, the immune-stimulating property of ICIs may lead to rejection and even graft loss, damping their use in treating HCC before liver transplantation. Therefore, it is worthwhile to explore the relationship between exposure to ICIs before LT and the incidence of graft rejection and rejection-related death or graft loss after LT.
Graft Rejection|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Immunotherapy|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor
DRUG: Immune checkpoint inhibitor
Graft rejection, In this study, rejection was be defined as the elevation of transaminase during the recovery of liver function after LT (transaminases should gradually return to normal levels) or suddenly abnormal elevations of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ≥2 times the upper limit that can be reversed by adjusting the immunosuppression regimen. Hepatic artery or portal vein thrombosis, drug toxicity or other factors should be excluded as the reason for liver function injury. Liver biopsies were not necessary for the diagnosis of rejection. The rejection activity index (RAI) was scored according to the Banff criteria to record the severity of acute rejection. An RAI score of 4-5 was defined as mild rejection, 6-7 was defined as moderate rejection, and 8-9 was defined as severe rejection., 1 year
Graft loss, Rejection related graft loss, 1 year|Hospital death, rejection related death, 1 year|Early allograft dysfunction (EAD), EAD is defined by the presence of one or more of the following: total bilirubin ≥ 10 mg/dL (171 μmol/L) or, INR ≥ 1.6 on day 7, and ALT/AST \> 2,000 IU/L within the first 7 days, First 7 days after liver transplantation
CD4 to CD8 T cell ratio, The ratio of CD4 to CD8 T cells, 1 year|pDC to mDC ratio, The ratio of plasmacytoid dendritic cells to myeloid dendritic cells, 1 year
This will be a retrospective and observational study, which will analyze the correlation between the use of ICIs and incidences of graft rejection and rejection-related death or graft loss after LT in consecutive recipients with LT for HCC at the Organ Transplantation Center of Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University.

The primary aim of this study is to analyze the correlation between pretransplant exposure to ICIs and incidences of graft rejection and rejection-related death or graft loss within 1 year after liver transplantation.

The secondary aim is to analyze the risk factors for graft rejection and to explore the correlation between ICI exposure and posttransplantation complication, such as incidences of early allograft dysfunction (EAD), bleeding, infection, biliary and vascular complications et al.

The exploratory aim is to identify potential biomarkers in predicting graft rejection, such as subsets of lymphocytes and cytokines et al.