Efficacy of Digital Breast Tomosynthesis + Standard 2- Dimensional Mammography in Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine if a 3-dimensional mammogram (DBT) may provide additional information to evaluate the extent of disease and additional findings that would aid in staging a new breast cancer patient. This would impact surgical planning and improve patient outcomes.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: 2-dimensional mammogram|DEVICE: digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT)
Number of Participants for Which DBT Altered Surgical Plan, Only positive findings, like an additional site of cancer or atypical pathology like Atypical ductal/ lobular hyperplasia, papilloma, DCIS/LCIS (findings requiring surgical intervention), will be taken into account when estimating the frequency of changes to surgical management, At completion of 3-Dimensional mammogram (1 day)
Variables on 2-Dimensional Mammogram That Might Predict Which Patients Would Benefit From DBT, At completion of 3-Dimensional mammogram (1 day)|The Proportion of Patients Undergoing Additional Work-up Following the DBT, At completion of 3-Dimensional mammogram (1 day)|Number of Patients Undergoing Additional Work-up Following the DBT With Benign Findings, At completion of 3-Dimensional mammogram (1 day)
Primary Objective:

The primary objective of the study is to measure the frequency with which DBT alters the surgical plan to mastectomy versus lumpectomy. Only positive findings, like an additional site of cancer or DCIS, will be taken into account when estimating the frequency of changes to surgical management.

Secondary objectives:

1. To measure the frequency and nature of additional findings like atypical pathology (Atypical ductal/ lobular hyperplasia, papilloma, Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) , requiring surgical intervention).
2. To identify variables on 2D (e.g. dense breasts, architectural distortions, non calcified masses) that might predict which patients would benefit from DBT.
3. To measure the proportion of patients undergoing additional work-up following the DBT, and the subset of these patients with benign findings (i.e. False Positives).