GDC-0084 in Combination with Trastuzumab for Patients with HER2-Positive Breast Cancer Brain Metastases
This research study is studying a drug called GDC-0084 as a possible treatment for HER2-Positive Breast Cancer.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* GDC-0084
* Trastuzumab (Herceptin®)
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: GDC-0084
Overall Response Rate in the CNS, ORR in the CNS according to response assessment in neuro-oncology-brain metastases (RANO-BM) criteria, 2 years|To evaluate the correlation between inhibition of p-4EBP1 in resected brain tumor tissue and intracranial response in the corresponding patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of BCBM, to correlate on-treatment p4EBP1 levels in the resected brain tumor tissue collected from patients to intracranial response to GDC-0084/trastuzumab and survival in the PDX model generated from the same patient, 2 Years
CBR, rate of patients with clinical benefit at 18 and 24 weeks, 18 and 24 weeks|DOR, to measure the duration of response in the CNS, 2 years|Objective extra-CNS response rates, the rate of patients who have an objective response outside of the CNS, 2 years|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, to evaluate the number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 2 years|Progression Free Survival, measured by RANO-BM and RECIST 1.1, 2 years|Overall Survival, to evaluate overall survival, 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved GDC-0084 as a treatment for any disease.

Trastuzumab is a targeted therapy approved by the FDA to be used alone or in combination with a chemotherapy drug to treat HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.

GDC-0084 has been shown to stop the activity of a protein called PI3-kinase. This action blocks a pathway in the body that cancer cells commonly use to grow and divide.

Trastuzumab is called a "targeted therapy" because it works by attaching itself to specific receptors on the surface of breast cancer cells, known as HER2 receptors. When targeted therapies attach to HER2 receptors, the signals that tell the cells to grow are blocked and the cancer cell may be marked for destruction by the immune system. This process allows trastuzumab to help slow or stop the growth of the breast cancer.

In this research study, the investigators are looking to see how your cancer responds to the combination of GDC-0084 and Trastuzumab.