TAA05 Cell Injection in the Treatment of Recurrent / Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This is a clinical study of ytaa05 cell injection in the treatment of patients with recurrent / refractory acute myeloid leukemia.The purpose is to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of FLT3 car-t cells in patients with recurrent / refractory FLT3 positive acute myeloid leukemia.#TAA05 cell injection is a T cell targeting FLT3 chimeric antigen receptor#
CAR|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: TAA05 cell injection
ORR 3 ORR 3, 3-month objective response rate, three months after CAR-T cells infusion
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a hematological malignancy caused by abnormal differentiation and uncontrolled proliferation of hematopoietic progenitor cells. If AML is not given active treatment within one year after diagnosis, it will cause fatal infection, bleeding and organ infiltration due to abnormal proliferation of tumor cells. AML is one of the most common leukemia. About 3.8 patients in every 100000 people are in the higher incidence rate among people aged 65 and over, and 17.9 patients in every 100000 people. The cure rate of AML is about 35-40% in patients ≤ 60 years old and only 5-15% in patients over 60 years old. The survival of elderly patients who can not tolerate chemotherapy is frustrating, and the median survival time is only 5-10 months. In the past 20 to 30 years, the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) has made significant progress, so that about 80% of adult patients under the age of 55 can achieve complete remission. However, more than half of Cr patients will relapse, and the long-term survival rate is about 40%. Until the 1970s, diagnosis was only based on pathological and cytological examination of bone marrow and blood. The five-year survival rate was less than 15%.

CAR-T cells can recognize specific antigens in a non restricted manner of HLA and continuously activate T cells. FLT3 is a potential target of AML. Therefore, the construction of car-t cells that recognize human FLT3 molecule has high clinical value in the treatment of AML.