Remotely Delivered, Culturally Tailored Weight Loss Interventions Among Latina Breast Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial evaluates a remotely delivered, culturally tailored weight loss interventions in Latina breast cancer (BC) survivors. Cancer is the leading cause of death among Latinos, and among Latinas, BC is the leading cause of cancer death. An estimated 80% of Latinas in the United States have overweight/obesity, which is associated with poorer BC outcomes. However, few, if any, effective interventions exist to promote and maintain weight loss in Latina BC survivors. The development of an adaptive program that provides survivors the support they need, as opposed to what is typically available, is essential to reducing persistent inequities in cancer survivorship.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Dietary Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Dietary Intervention|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Health Promotion and Education|OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Interview|BEHAVIORAL: Lifestyle Counseling|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Nutritional Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|BEHAVIORAL: Telephone-Based Intervention
Body weight (kg) percent change, Will be assessed by the percent of weight loss at month 12 and compared across the four embedded adaptive intervention (EAI) groups using the doubly robust estimator model., Up to 12 months
Body weight (kg) percent change as moderated by baseline characteristics, Will be determined by whether EAI effectiveness is moderated by baseline patient characteristics., Up to 12 months
OUTLINE: This study includes a baseline run-in and randomized stage I and stage II studies.

BASELINE: Participants receive written instructions and website link to an instructional video along with supportive materials including measuring tape, Aria wireless fidelity (WiFi)-enabled scale, and Actigraph accelerometer to be worn for 7 days at baseline. Patients also undergo blood sample collection at baseline.

STAGE I: Eligible participants from the baseline run-in are randomized to arm I or II.

ARM I: Participants participate in the online ¡Vida! program consisting of 26 health education online sessions, dietary modifications, and home-based exercise sessions on study. Participants receive supportive materials consisting of a Fitbit Aria scale, a Fitbit Luxe (or latest device), the Fitbit app, and access to the Cook for Your Life website on study. Patients also undergo blood sample collection on study.

ARM II: Participants participate in the online ¡Vida! program consisting of 26 health education online sessions, dietary modifications, and home-based exercise sessions on study. Participants receive supportive materials consisting of a Fitbit Aria scale, a Fitbit Luxe (or latest device), the Fitbit app, and access to the Cook for Your Life website on study. Participants also attend remote lifestyle health education sessions on study. Patients also undergo blood sample collection on study.

STAGE II: Participants who achieve \>= 2% weight loss (responders) at week 4 will continue their assigned interventions in stage I. Participants who achieve \< 2% weight loss (non-responders) at week 4 will be re-randomized to 1 of 4 arms. Participants who were assigned to arm I in stage I are randomized to arm III or IV. Participants who were assigned to arm II in stage I are randomized to arms V or VI.

ARM III: Participants receive interventions as in arm II.

ARM IV: Participants participate in the online ¡Vida! program consisting of 26 health education online sessions, dietary modifications, and home-based exercise sessions on study. Participants receive supportive materials consisting of a Fitbit Aria scale, a Fitbit Luxe (or latest device), the Fitbit app, and access to the Cook for Your Life website on study. Participants also attend remote lifestyle health education sessions and receive 14 30-minute individualized telephone health coaching sessions. Patients also undergo blood sample collection on study.

ARM V: Participants receive interventions as in arm IV.

ARM VI: Participants participate in the online ¡Vida! program consisting of 26 health education online sessions, dietary modifications, and home-based exercise sessions on study. Participants receive supportive materials consisting of a Fitbit Aria scale, a Fitbit Luxe (or latest device), the Fitbit app, and access to the Cook for Your Life website on study. Participants also attend remote lifestyle health education sessions and receive 14 30-minute individualized telephone health coaching sessions and receive a bag of groceries each month on study. Patients also undergo blood sample collection on study.