A Study to Describe the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Path of Patients with NSCLC in Early Stage and Locally Advanced
This is a non-interventional, retrospective observational study to improve knowledge regarding the diagnosis and treatments of patients who have/had non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), either early stage (stage I-II).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|NSCLC|NSCLC, Stage III|NSCLC, Stage I
NSCLC treatment approaches in Real-World practice, Percentage of patients undergoing to:

1. surgical resection of the lung cancer with curative intent;
2. definitive (chemo)radiotherapy (defined as any regimen of chemotherapy administered with concurrent radiotherapy)
3. neoadjuvant treatment (4 cycles) before surgery
4. adjuvant treatments (4 cycles) after surgery, Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021.|Percentage of patients discusses in multidisciplinary team, Multidisciplinary team defined as the involvement of radiotherapy unit, pneumology and/or interventional pneumology unit in patient discussion., Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021|Healthcare resource utilization aof different therapeutic approaches, Healthcare resources used to manage the patients will be described in terms of lab tests and/or outpatient visits and/or drug therapy and/or diagnostic tests., Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021.|Direct medical costs of different therapeutic approaches, The cost of the therapeutic approach (cost of illness) will be estimated through an activity-based costing (ABC) technique which allows to calculate the full cost of a service by measuring the cost of each individual activity/resource related to it., Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021.
NSCLC treatments timeline in Real-World practice, Median Time from:

1. diagnosis/multidisciplinary referral to surgery or start of radioterapy
2. surgery/completion of Radiotherapy to satrt of adjiuvant treatmen, Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021.
Biomarkers profile evaluation at NSCLC diagnosis, Percentage of PD-L1, EGFR/ALK, KRAS test performed along with results, Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021.|PD-L1 Biomarker profile evaluation at NSCLC diagnosis, Percentage of PD-L1 test performed along with results, Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021.|EGFR/ALK Biomarkers profile evaluation at NSCLC diagnosis, Percentage of EGFR/ALK test performed along with results, Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021.|KRAS Biomarkers profile evaluation at NSCLC diagnosis, Percentage of KRAS test performed along with result, Restrospective data capture from January 2018 to January 2021.
Due to heterogeneity of patients with stage I-III Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC), there is not a unique common therapeutic approach and there is no consensus about the optimal timing, sequencing and combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy across the spectrum of early stage and locally advance disease. Consequently, the choice of local treatment modality can vary across countries and centers.