A Pilot Study of Irinotecan in Patients With Breast Cancer and CNS Metastases
This pilot clinical trial studies irinotecan hydrochloride in treating patients with breast cancer and brain metastases that progressed after whole brain radiation therapy or stereotactic radiosurgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as irinotecan hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Central Nervous System Metastases|Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
CNS objective response (complete response or partial response), defined as at least 20% volumetric reduction of CNS lesions in absence of increasing steroid use, progressive neurologic signs and symptoms, or progressive extra-CNS disease, based on MRI, Up to 24 months|Response rate of patients who have remained progression-free, based on MRI, Up to 6 months
Overall survival, The product limit estimator developed by Kaplan and Meier was used to graphically describe the distribution of survival among patients with recurrent disease., Time between treatment initiation and death, assessed up to 24 months|Progression free survival (PFS), The product limit estimator developed by Kaplan and Meier was used to graphically describe the distribution of PFS among patients with recurrent disease., Time between treatment initiation and disease progression/relapse/death, assessed up to 24 months|Clinical benefit rate (objective response + stable disease at least 16 weeks), Up to 24 months|Frequency of toxicity occurrence, assessed by National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) for Adverse Events version 4.0, Tabulated by type, and worst grade experienced by the patient. Toxicity will initially be summarized within each cohort or patient subgroup, and then collectively summarized., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES; I. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride) in breast cancer patients with brain metastases who progressed after radiation therapy.

II. To estimate central nervous system (CNS) objective response and clinical benefit rate in patients with breast cancer and brain metastases treated with irinotecan.

III. To estimate progression free survival. IV. To estimate overall survival. V. To assess the toxicity of Irinotecan.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive irinotecan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29. Courses repeat every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 24 months.