Adoptive Transfer of Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes for Biliary Tract Cancers
This is a Phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy, using objective response rate, of a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting preparative regimen followed by infusion of autologous Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL) and high-dose aldesleukin in patients with locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic biliary tract cancer. These are low-incidence cancers carry a poor prognosis. Participants will include patients with biliary tract cancers (BTC), including cholangiocarcinoma (both intrahepatic and extrahepatic) and gallbladder cancer, who are and are physically able to tolerate non-myeloablative chemotherapy and high-dose aldesleukin.
Biliary Tract Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma|Biliary Tract Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Proportion of patients with response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1): Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression.. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. ORR (proportion of patients) = # with CR + # with PR / # with CR + # with PR + # with SD + # with PD., Up to 24 months
Complete response rate (CRR), Proportion of patients with complete response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1): Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression.. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. CRR (proportion of patients) = # with CR / # with CR + # with PR + # with SD + # with PD., Up to 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Time between the initial response to treatment per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) and subsequent disease progression among patients achieving Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR). Per RECIST v1.1, Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. DOR is measured as the time between the initial response to treatment per RECIST and subsequent disease progression., Up to 24 months|Disease control rate (DCR), Proportion of patients with response or stable disease per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1):Complete Response (CR):disappearance of all target lesions.Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD):≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression. Stable Disease (SD):Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. DCR (proportion of patients) = # with CR + # with PR + # with SD / # with CR + # with PR + # with SD + # with PD., Up to 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), The length of time after TIL infusion treatment that a patient lives with disease that does not progress per RECIST v1.1. Per RECIST, Progressive Disease (PD): ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). The sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance ≥1 new lesion(s) is considered progression., Up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), The length of time from the start of treatment that patients are still alive., Up to 24 months|EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30), The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) v 3.0 is a multi-dimensional assessment of health-related quality of life (HRQoL). EORTC QLQ-C30 includes: five (5) multi-item functional scales (physical functioning, role functioning, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning, social functioning); three (3) multi-item symptom scales (fatigue, nausea, vomiting, pain); six (6) symptom single-item scales (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties); (1) Global Health Status scale; (1) Global HRQoL scale. Each scale is measured from 0 to 100 after a linear transformation. Higher scores for functioning scales and for the Global Health Status or Global HRQoL indicate a higher level of functioning and a better HRQoL respectively, whereas higher scores in symptom scales represent a higher level of symptoms. Assessment of change is assessed across the 15 different domains., Prior to treatment and after treatment; Up to 24 months|EuroQol 5 dimensions 5 levels (EQ-5D-5L), The EuroQol 5 dimensions 5 levels (EQ-5D-5L) provides a brief five-dimensional assessment of patient HRQoL on five levels along with a numeric rating of patient perceived overall health. The EQ-5D-5L contains the following content: (5) dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression); (5) levels within each dimension (no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, extreme problems); visual analogue scale of overall health status (number from 0 to 100); Each dimension is expressed as a value from 1 to 5 depending on the level selected. The sum of the 5-dimensional values can be combined into a 5-digit number that describes the patient's health state. The visual analogue scale number is a quantitative measure of health outcomes that reflects the patient's own judgement. Higher scores are associated with a greater level of perceived health difficulty., Prior to treatment and after treatment; Up to 24 months
This Phase 2 study will be conducted in conjunction with companion protocol (Cell Harvest and Preparation to Support Adoptive Cell Therapy Clinical Protocols and Pre-Clinical Studies) as described below:

Cell Preparation:

Patients with evaluable locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic biliary tract cancers who have lesions that can be resected or biopsied with minimum morbidity will undergo resection or biopsy of tumor. Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TIL) will be obtained while enrolled on the companion protocol Cell Harvest and Preparation to Support Adoptive Cell Therapy Clinical Protocols and Pre-Clinical Studies. Separate tumor procurement(s) may be performed under the companion protocol to obtain TIL if initial tumor procurement(s) could not successfully generate TIL. The TIL will be grown and expanded for this trial according to standard operating procedures submitted in the IND. The TIL will be assessed for potency by interferon-gamma release.

Treatment Phase:

Once cells exceed the potency requirement and are projected to exceed the minimum number specified in the COA, the patient will be registered on this study and receive the lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen consisting of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide, followed by infusion of up to 2x1011 lymphocytes (minimum of 1x109 cells) and administration of high-dose intravenous aldesleukin. It is anticipated that TIL that meet the COA will not be achievable in approximately 20% of patients who undergo resection. These patients may undergo a second resection to grow TIL, if another suitable lesion exists. Approximately 6 weeks (+/- 2 weeks) after TIL administration, patients will undergo a complete tumor evaluation and evaluation of toxicity and immunologic parameters. Patients will receive one course of treatment. The start date of the course will be the start date of the chemotherapy; the end date will be the day of the first post-treatment evaluation. Patients may undergo a second treatment. Patients will receive no other experimental agents while on this protocol.