Cervical Cancer Screening Based on First-void Urine Self-sampling to Reach un(Der)-Screened Women: ScreenUrSelf Trial
The goal of the ScreenUrSelf trial is to increase cervical cancer screening attendance and compliance to follow-up by offering a first-void urine self-sampling alternative to women who are currently not participating in the organized cervical cancer screening program (defined in this project as un(der)-screened women), either on the woman or her physician's personal initiative, or by responding on the invitation letter.
Cervix Cancer|Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia|Human Papilloma Virus|HPV-Related Cervical Carcinoma
DEVICE: Colli-Pee Small Volumes|DEVICE: Evalyn Brush
Response rate, Proportions of women that participate in each intervention (measured by PP\* and ITT\*) and in the control arms (measured by Pap smears taken) within 10 months after the intervention.

\*PP: participation in intervention arm measured by self-sample analyses only

\*\*ITT: participation in intervention arm measured by self-sample analyses or Pap smears taken, 10 months (until 31/03/2024)
Compliance, 1. Compliance to a hrHPV positive result on a self-sample measured by standard of care follow-up, i.e., a Pap smear taken by a clinician.
2. Compliance to an abnormal Pap smear measured by standard of care follow-up., 19 months (until 31/12/2024)|Preference, Preference and attitudes of women between intervention arms (measured via a questionnaire), Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Age-related differences in response rate, Age-related differences in response rates within and between different study arms

Response rates: Proportions of women that participate in each intervention (measured by PP\* and ITT\*) and in the control arms (measured by Pap smears taken) within 10 months after the intervention.

\*PP: participation in intervention arm measured by self-sample analyses only

\*\*ITT: participation in intervention arm measured by self-sample analyses or Pap smears taken, 10 months (until 31/03/2024)|Socio-economic status-related differences differences in response rate, Socio-economic status-related differences in response rates within and between different study arms

Response rates: Proportions of women that participate in each intervention (measured by PP\* and ITT\*) and in the control arms (measured by Pap smears taken) within 10 months after the intervention.

\*PP: participation in intervention arm measured by self-sample analyses only

\*\*ITT: participation in intervention arm measured by self-sample analyses or Pap smears taken, 10 months (until 31/03/2024)|Clinical accuracy of HPV assay, Test-positivity, positive predictive value, referral rate to colposcopy, and detection rate of CIN2+ of a hrHPV positive result on a self-sample in un(der)-screened women; absolute measures in each arm and ratios of measures between arms.

Test-positivity, positive predictive value, referral rate to colposcopy, and detection rate of CIN2+ will be combined to report clinical accuracy., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Clinical accuracy of methylation assay, Test-positivity, positive predictive value, referral rate to colposcopy, and detection rate CIN2+ of a methylation-based reflex test (index test) to triage hrHPV positive self-sample in un(der)screened women, compared to reflex cytology on a Pap smear (comparator test); absolute measures in each arm and ratios of measures between arms.

Test-positivity, positive predictive value, referral rate to colposcopy, and detection rate of CIN2+ will be combined to report clinical accuracy., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Cost-effectiveness, 1. Differences in time needed per women to obtain a test result between study arms
2. Differences in costs per women between the different study arms
3. Differences in total cost between the different study arms

The above differences in time and costs will be combined to report cost-effectiveness., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Patient: In this population-based study we target real un(der)-screened women, i.e., women (31-64y) eligible for the Flemish population-based cervical cancer screening program without any cytology/histology/pathological result retrieved from the Belgian Cancer Registry (BCR) for at least the last six years (i.e., two screening rounds). Women who opted out of the screening program, who are pregnant (self-reported), underwent total hysterectomy, have (had) cervical or uterine cancer, or are included in other Centre for Cancer Detection (CvKO) pilot projects are not eligible.

Intervention: The proposed randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be embedded in the Flemish organized cervical cancer screening program, which is coordinated by CvKO under governance of the Flemish government. The goal is to reach women who are eligible but do not participate in cervical cancer screening, by offering two self-sampling methods (first-void urine and vaginal) in an opt-in and -out strategy (total of four interventions) to collect samples for primary high-risk (hr) Human Papillomavirus (HPV) testing, and if positive, reflex 1) cytology on a Pap smear (standard of care) and 2) methylation marker triage (index test).

Comparison: The two control arms include 1) no intervention; and 2) sending (recall) invitation letters to women, inviting them to make an appointment for a Pap smear (i.e., current practise within the organized cervical cancer screening program in Flanders).

Primary outcome: The primary outcome is the actual response rate, i.e., proportions of women that participate in each intervention and in the control arms at 12 months after initiation of the intervention (the intervention being one of six study arms). Response in this project is defined as having a preventive cervical screen exam, either by a self-sample or by a physician-taken Pap smear, at 12 months after initiation of the intervention.