A Two Step Approach to Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation for Patients With Hematologic Malignancies-Increasing GVT Effects Without Increasing Toxicity
This phase II trial studies the how well donor stem cell transplant works in treating patients with high risk hematologic malignancies. Giving total-body irradiation and chemotherapy before a donor stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cells in the bone marrow, including normal blood-forming cells (stem cells) and cancer cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. The donated stem cells may also replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining cancer cells.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm
RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation|PROCEDURE: Donor Lymphocyte Infusion|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
Overall Survival (OS), Will be tested using an exact one-sided binomial test with alpha 0.05. The trial will be considered successful if the null hypothesis of 45% 2-year OS is rejected. In addition, the exact binomial 95% confidence interval for 2-year OS will be computed., At two years
Incidence of graft failure, Should be less than 10%, Up to 2 years|Incidence of non-relapse mortality, Should be less than 20% at 100 days, Up to 2 years
Primary Objective:

1. To assess 2 year probability of OS in high risk patients undergoing a myeloablative 2 step HSCT utilizing strategies to decrease relapse.

Secondary Objective:

1. To assess relapse incidence at 2 years post-HSCT of patients undergoing treatment on this protocol.
2. To assess regimen related toxicity and GVHD incidence at 2 years post-HSCT and severity in patients undergoing treatment on this protocol.
3. To assess the consistency and pace of engraftment.
4. To assess the pace of T cell and B cell immune recovery.