Medical Radiometer - RTM - 01 - RES and Its Use in Detecting Hotspots in Female Breast
Medical Radiometer depends on detecting the microwaves that radiates from deep structure hot objects in the body. When it comes to the breast, causes of deep structure hot spots are numerous, it can be inflammatory, hormonal or neoplastic. Therefore, the primary objective of this study is to test the sensitivity of the Medical Radiometer in detecting the hot spots in the breast.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Microwave Thermography RTM-01-RES
Testing the sensitivity of the Microwave Thermography RTM-01-RES (ability to detect hotspots in breast lesions), Ability of the Microwave Thermography RTM-01-RES to detect hotspots in the various breast lesions., 6 months
Study the Temperature pattern, The temperature pattern of previously diagnosed diseases and the new healthy objects might give us an idea about whether we can diagnose various breast diseases or no., 3 months
The detected hotspots, to be studdied by the Echo-dobbler to see the ability of early detection of neo-Vascularisation of the malignant tumors., Half of the sample of the study will be already diagnosed cancer patients, study the neo-vascularisation of the tumor by the Echo-dobbler might give us an idea about how to detect the cancer in earlier stages when it is detected by the RTM, 6 months
Several pathological lesions and physiological changes can cause spot in the breast to show higher temperature than it should be.

The causes can be:

\[I\] Physiological: During menarch, puberty, menstruation, lactation and after sexual Intercourse.

\[II\] Inflammatory: Mastitis and breast Abscess. \[III\] Endocrinal: any cause of increasing Oestrogen, Prolactin and/or Thyroid hormones.

\[IV\] Neoplastic: the neo-Vascularisation of the malignant tumors. Radiometer is a machine that can detect through its sensitive probe the microwave that radiate from the deep structures in the body.

The main aim of this study, first is to measure the sensitivity of the RTM in detecting the hot spots of different breast lesions.

The second Objective is to study the temperature patter of each disease trying to figure out a diagnostic code for the different lesions.

The tertiary objective is to combine the Echo-Dobbler in studying the hot spots in the neoplastic lesions trying to figure out an accurate protocol to early detect the malignant hot spots.