An Exploratory Study by Fast CAR T Cells
The main goal of this trial is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of CAR T cell therapy for advanced solid tumors with positive mesothelin and MUC1.Patients were screened, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were isolated from eligible patients, and cells were prepared. Pretreatment was performed within 5 days before infusion, and CAR T cells were infused on day 0 (the dose was determined according to the requirements of climbing/expansion). The safety intensive observation period was 28 days after infusion, and the clinical efficacy after infusion was evaluated on days 28-34. The follow-up observation and evaluation were carried out according to the follow-up visit point, and the follow-up period was 1 year. From the second year, the telephone follow-up period was entered.
Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: Fast CAR T cells
Dose-limiting toxicity(DLT), Safety, After 28 days of infusion
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Tolerability, After 28 days of infusion|Objective response rate (ORR), Clinical response will be assessed by RECIST 1.1, Month 12|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS of patients receiving Fast CAR T cells, Month 12|Overall survival (OS), OS of patients receiving Fast CAR T cells, Month 12|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Pharmacokinetics (PK), Month 12|AUC, Pharmacokinetics (PK), Day 28|Pharmacodynamics (PD), D of IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-15, IFN-γ, TNF-α and MCP1 will be analysed after CAR T cell infusion, Day 28
The main goal of this trial is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of CAR T cell therapy for advanced solid tumors with positive mesothelin and MUC1.Patients were screened, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) were isolated from eligible patients, and cells were prepared. Pretreatment was performed within 5 days before infusion, and CAR T cells were infused on day 0 (the dose was determined according to the requirements of climbing/expansion). The safety intensive observation period was 28 days after infusion, and the clinical efficacy after infusion was evaluated on days 28-34. The follow-up observation and evaluation were carried out according to the follow-up visit point, and the follow-up period was 1 year. From the second year, the telephone follow-up period was entered.