Gleevec/Low-Dose Ara-C Study for Elderly Patients With AML and Myelodysplastic Syndromes
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if the combination of Gleevec (imatinib mesylate) and low doses of Cytarabine (ara-C) may help to control leukemia while causing fewer side effects than standard high dose chemotherapy.
Leukemia, Myeloid|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Gleevec|DRUG: Ara-C
Efficacy of a combination of imatinib and low dose ara-C in elderly or high-risk patients with AML and MDS, as measured by the rate of early mortality or progression., April 2007
Rate of overall response, including CRp and PR., April 2007|To determine the safety profile of this combination., April 2007|To determine the impact on long-term survival of this therapy., April 2007|To determine the duration of responses obtained with this therapy., April 2007|To determine the impact of this therapy in cognitive function., April 2007|To determine the effect of this approach in quality of life of this patient population., April 2007|To determine the overall costs (health economic analysis) associated with this combination therapy., April 2007
Imatinib mesylate is a drug that blocks a certain protein. This protein is thought to be important in the growth of leukemia cells. Ara-C is a chemotherapy drug that has been used for many years to treat AML and MDS.

Imatinib mesylate (Gleevec) is a protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor that inhibits the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase, as well as the receptor tyrosine kinases for platelet- derived growth factor (PDGF) and stem cell factor (SCF), c-Kit, and inhibits PDGF- and SCF-mediated cellular events. c-Kit is expressed in over 90% of patients with AML.

The treatment of AML for patients age 65 or older with AML or high-risk MDS (age ³ 60 if high-risk cytogenetics) have a poor prognosis with induction chemotherapy. Response rate is no more than 45% with an induction mortality of at least 25%, and 1-year survival no better than 20%. Indeed, most patients in these age groups are not even offered therapy and are managed with supportive care only. Thus, new therapies that are better tolerated are needed.

Imatinib alone can induce response in nearly 20% of patients, and there is synergy with low concentrations of ara-C. In this study we plan to investigate the combination of imatinib and low-dose ara-C.