Coping Together After Breast Cancer
The objective of the proposed study is to evaluate an Intimacy Enhancement (IE) intervention in 120 female early stage breast cancer survivors reporting sexual concerns and their intimate partners (240 total participants). Couples will be randomized 1:1 to receive either the IE intervention or to an information and support condition (Living Healthy Together). The investigators will evaluate intervention effects on patient and partner sexual, relationship, and psychological outcomes.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Intimacy Enhancement|BEHAVIORAL: Living Healthy Together
Change in Self-Reported Patient Sexual Function, Patients' self-reported sexual function will be measured using the 19-item Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI).Total scale scores range from 2 to 36, with higher scores indicating higher functioning. Mean change scores will be reported: positive mean change scores indicate increase in sexual functioning over time while negative mean change scores indicate decrease in sexual functioning over time., Baseline up to 6 weeks
Change in Self-Reported Partner Sexual Function, Partners' (male) self-reported sexual function will be measured using the 15-item International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF). Total scale scores range from 1 to 75, with higher scores indicating a higher level of sexual functioning. Change in mean male partner IIEF score over time will be reported. Positive mean change scores indicate increase in sexual functioning., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Self-Reported Patient Sexual Distress, Patient sexual distress will be measured using the 13-item Female Sexual Distress Scale-Revised (FSDS-R). Total scale scores range from 0 to 52. Higher scores indicate higher levels of sexual distress. Change in patient mean sexual distress score over time will be reported. Negative mean change scores indicate decrease in sexual distress., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Patients' Self-Reported Relationship Intimacy, Patient self-reported relationship intimacy will be measured using the 17-item Miller Social Intimacy Scale (MSIS). This scale assesses emotional intimacy, closeness and trust toward an individual's partner. Scores range from 17 to 170, with higher scores indicating higher levels of intimacy. Change in patient mean relationship intimacy score over time will be reported. Positive mean change scores indicate increase in relationship intimacy., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Partners' Self-Reported Relationship Intimacy, Partner self-reported relationship intimacy will be measured using the 17-item Miller Social Intimacy Scale (MSIS). This scale assesses emotional intimacy, closeness and trust toward an individual's partner. Scores range from 17 to 170, with higher scores indicating higher levels of intimacy. Change in patient mean relationship intimacy score over time will be reported. Positive mean change scores indicate increase in relationship intimacy., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Patients' Self-Reported Relationship Quality, Patient self-reported relationship quality will be measured using the 7-item Dyadic Adjustment Scale (DAS-7). Total scale scores range from 0 to 36. Higher scores indicate higher relationship quality. Change in mean relationship quality score over time will be reported. Positive mean change scores indicate increase in relationship quality., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Partners' Self-Reported Relationship Quality, Partner self-reported relationship quality will be measured using the 7-item Dyadic Adjustment Scale (DAS-7). Total scale scores range from 0 to 36. Higher scores indicate higher relationship quality. Change in mean relationship quality score over time will be reported. Positive mean change scores indicate increase in relationship quality., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Patients' Self-Reported Anxiety, Patients' self-reported anxiety will be measured using the 7-item Generalized Anxiety Disorder scale (GAD-7). Total scale scores range from 0 to 21. Higher scores indicate higher levels of anxiety. Change in mean anxiety score over time will be reported. Negative mean change scores indicate decrease in anxiety., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Partners' Self-Reported Anxiety, Partners' self-reported anxiety will be measured using the 7-item Generalized Anxiety Disorder scale (GAD-7). Total scale scores range from 0 to 21. Higher scores indicate higher levels of anxiety. Change in mean anxiety score over time will be reported. Negative mean change scores indicate decrease in anxiety., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Patients' Self-Reported Depressive Symptoms, Patients' self-reported depression will be measured using the 9-item Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). Total scale scores range from 0 to 27. Higher scores indicate higher levels of depression. Change in mean depression score over time will be reported. Negative mean change scores indicate decrease in depression., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Change in Partners' Self-Reported Depressive Symptoms, Partners' self-reported depression will be measured using the 9-item Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9). Total scale scores range from 0 to 27. Higher scores indicate higher levels of depression. Change in mean depression score over time will be reported. Negative mean change scores indicate decrease in depression., Baseline up to 6 weeks
Over half of breast cancer survivors experience sexual concerns resulting from physical changes due to breast surgery, chemotherapy, and hormonal therapies; emotional changes; and relationship difficulties. In contrast with many aspects of quality of life (QOL) that tend to improve over time for breast cancer survivors, sexual concerns often persist for years. As a result, many breast cancer survivors and their partners may wish to resume a satisfying intimate relationship after treatment ends but encounter difficulties in doing so. Sexual concerns often go unaddressed, can lead to clinically significant psychological distress, and have a negative impact on survivors' relationships and quality of life. Thus, addressing sexual concerns and improving sexual function is of critical importance to the long-term adjustment of these survivors. Given the central role of the intimate relationship in breast cancer survivors' sexual experiences, a couple-based intervention that systematically involves the partner may be a highly effective approach for addressing these concerns and improving function. Yet randomized controlled trials evaluating the efficacy of a couple-based intervention targeting sexual function for breast cancer survivors are lacking. In this study, the investigators plan to evaluate a four-session telephone couple-based intervention that provides education and training in cognitive and behavioral skills to help couples cope with sexual concerns and enhance their intimate relationship, called Intimacy Enhancement (IE).

The specific aims of this study are (1) to evaluate whether the IE intervention will lead to a significantly greater increase in patient sexual function from pre-treatment to post-treatment and 3- and 6-month follow-ups compared to the LHT condition; (2) to evaluate whether the IE intervention will lead to significantly greater improvements in partner sexual function, patient sexual distress, patient/partner relationship intimacy/quality, and psychological distress from pre-treatment to post-treatment and at 3- and 6-month follow-ups, compared to the LHT condition; (3) to evaluate whether increases from pre- to post-treatment in patient sexual communication and self-efficacy for coping with sexual concerns mediate the beneficial effects of the IE intervention on patient sexual function at 3- and 6-month follow-ups.