SonoVue®-Enhanced Ultrasound Versus Unenhanced US for Focal Liver Lesion Characterization
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the superiority of SonoVue®-enhanced ultrasound versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of Focal Liver Lesions using final diagnosis based on histology or combined imaging/clinical data as truth standard.
Liver Neoplasms
DRUG: SonoVue-enhanced ultrasound|OTHER: Unenhanced ultrasound
Sensitivity: Percentage of True Positive Lesions Among All Malignant Lesions Per Truth Standard, Sensitivity of SonoVue-enhanced ultrasound (SonoVue CE-US) versus unenhanced ultrasound (UE-US) for characterization of malignant focal liver lesions (FLLs), using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the Intent-to-Diagnose (ITD) population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True positive: subject with a target lesion characterized as malignant by both ultrasonography and the truth standard.

Truth standard: contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CE CT) and /or contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (CE-MRI) examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of true positive lesions/number of malignant lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Specificity: Percentage of True Negative Lesions Among All Malignant Lesions Per Truth Standard, Specificity of SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of benign FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True negative: subject with a target lesion characterized as benign by both ultrasonography and the truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of true negative lesions/number of benign lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months
Accuracy: Percentage of True Positive and True Negative Among All Lesions, The Accuracy of SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of malignant and benign FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True positive: subject with a target lesion characterized as malignant by both ultrasonography and the truth standard.

True negative: subject with a target lesion characterized as benign by both ultrasonography and the truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of true positive and true negative lesions/number of total lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Positive Predictive Value (PPV): Percentage of True Positive Lesions Among All Malignant Lesions Per Ultrasound, Positive Predictive Value of SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True positive: subject with a target lesion characterized as malignant by both ultrasonography and the truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of true positive lesions/number of malignant lesions per ultrasound) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Negative Predictive Value (NPV): Percentage of True Negative Lesions Among All Malignant Lesions Per Ultrasound, Negative Predictive Value of SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for characterization of FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

True negative: subject with a target lesion characterized as benign by both ultrasonography and the truth standard.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of true negative lesions/number of benign lesions per ultrasound) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Specific Diagnosis of Malignant FLLs, SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for specific diagnosis of malignant FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of correctly characterized lesions/number of lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Specific Diagnosis of Benign FLLs, SonoVue-enhanced versus unenhanced ultrasound for specific diagnosis of benign FLLs, using the diagnosis provided by each of the 3 off-site assessors (blinded to patient data) for the ITD population. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.

Truth standard: CE-CT and /or CE-MRI examination OR tissue pathology/histology from surgical resection/biopsy OR 6-month follow up. Calculated as (number of correctly characterized lesions/number of lesions per truth standard) x 100., 24 hours to 6 months|Inter-reader Agreement, Inter-reader agreement of assessment of malignant or benign by unenhanced and SonoVue-enhanced ultrasonography separately. Unit of analysis was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized. Computation for the percentage agreement within two categories: "3 out of 3 readers agree" and "2 out of 3 readers agree"., 24 hours to 6 months
Unit of analysis for the outcome measures was the lesion, equivalent to the subject, since each subject had a single lesion that was to be characterized.