Neoadjuvant Therapy With Conservative Surgery vs. Up-front Conservative Surgery for BRAF V600E-Mutated Ameloblastoma
Ameloblastoma is the most common benign odontogenic tumor, characterized by high local invasiveness and a high recurrence rate. Currently, surgical treatment is the standard treatment modality. The main surgical approaches include radical resection represented by local extended resection (with a safety margin of more than 2 cm) and conservative procedures represented by curettage and fenestration. Although radical resection can effectively treat the disease, it often leads to severe jaw bone defects and even disrupts the continuity of the jaw bone. However, the conservative procedures have a recurrence rate of approximately 40%.

This study aims to reduce the recurrence rate of conservative procedures by using neoadjuvant therapy with dabrafenib combined with trametinib, and to reduce surgical trauma while improving the radical cure effect. The endpoints of this study are the 3-year and 5-year recurrence rates, as well as the effectiveness and safety of the neoadjuvant therapy.
Ameloblastoma
DRUG: Dabrafenib and trametinib (combination)
Recurrence - free survival rates, To evaluate the recurrence-free survival after neoadjuvant therapy with dabrafenib and trametinib, followed by curettage and fenestration surgery., Up to 5 years
Radiological response, The radiological response to neoadjuvant therapy with Dabrafenib and Trametinib in patients with ameloblastoma will be assessed through three-dimensional volumetric imaging (e.g., CT scans with 3D reconstruction) at predefined intervals. Tumor volume changes, as determined by 3D reconstruction, will be used to evaluate the radiological response., 3 months|Pathological response, The pathological response to neoadjuvant therapy with Dabrafenib and Trametinib in patients with ameloblastoma will be assessed through post-treatment surgical specimens., 4 months|AEs will be recorded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, The safety of neoadjuvant therapy with Dabrafenib and Trametinib in patients with ameloblastoma will be assessed through monitoring adverse events (AEs). AEs will be recorded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, and graded based on severity (Grade 1 to Grade 5) and their relationship to the study drugs., 1 year
The primary endpoints are the 3-year and 5-year recurrence - free survival rates after neoadjuvant therapy followed by curettage and fenestration surgery. The secondary endpoints are the radiological response, pathological response, and safety of the neoadjuvant therapy with dabrafenib combined with trametinib.