Respiratory Distress Symptom Intervention (RDSI) Trial
This study aims to determine the effects of adding the Respiratory Distress Symptom Intervention (RDSI) to usual care for the self management of the Respiratory Distress Symptom Cluster (breathlessness-cough-fatigue) for patients with lung cancer including mesothelioma.
Lung Cancer
OTHER: Respiratory Distress Symptom Intervention
Breathlessness, Dyspnoea-12

Dyspnoea-12(D-12)27. Dyspnoea-12: is the primary outcome for breathlessness. It provides an assessment of total breathlessness severity that incorporates its physical discomfort and emotional consequences. It has been validated in a range of respiratory conditions including lung cancer (unpublished data)., 12 weeks|Cough, The Manchester Cough in Lung Cancer scale. This is a patient self-report consisting of 10 items. This is the only lung cancer specific scale available for the assessment of cough30. Evidence of MCLC reliability and validity has been further reported in intrathoracic malignancy (unpublished PhD data)., 12 weeks|Fatigue, The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) This is a 13-item standalone scale with good psychometric properties and established minimally important difference. It is commonly used for the assessment of fatigue in lung cancer with good psychometric properties., 12 weeks
NRS Ability to cope with symptoms., Consists of 3 items, breathlessness, cough and fatigue, each on a NRS ranging from 0 (not able to cope at all) to 10 (completely able to cope)., 12 weeks|Mood state - Hospital Anxiety & Depression Scale (HADS), This is a 14-item scale assessing anxiety with 7 items and depression with a further 7 items. Each item is answered on a 4-point scale (0-3). Scores on each sub-scale thus range between 0 (no symptoms) and 21 (numerous and severe symptoms). Higher scores are indicative of more anxiety and depression, scores below 8 are considered to be in the normal range, 8-10 are borderline, and scores above 11 indicates a disorder of relevant mood, 12 weeks|EQ-5D-5L, EQ-5D is a standardised instrument for use as a measure of health outcome. It is applicable to a wide range of health conditions and treatments, it provides a simple descriptive profile and a single index value for health status that can be used in the clinical and economic evaluation of health care as well as in population health surveys. The EuroQoL 5-level version (EQ-5D-5L) will be assessed to provide a preference based measure of health-related quality-of-life which will enable us to calculate a quality adjusted life-year for use in the cost-effectiveness analysis., 12 weeks|Health care utilisation, Assessment of resource use will be assessed via patient-recall using a standardised instrument at baseline (previous 4 weeks), week 4 and week 12. Utilisation of resource being measured include: planned hospital or hospice overnight stays, planned hospital out-patient visits, hospital emergency visits, hospital admissions (days/nights), GP and other community service visits (community nurse, walk-in centre, occupational therapist, care worker, home help, social worker)., 12 weeks
Carer outcome measures. Quality of Life (Caregiver Quality of Life Index-Cancer)., This is a 35-item scale evaluating the quality of life of those caring for cancer patients and the impact of caregiving on carers' life., 12 weeks|Carer outcome measures. Mood state (Hospital Anxiety & Depression Scale)., This is a 14-item scale assessing anxiety with 7 items and depression with a further 7 items. Each item is answered on a 4-point scale (0-3). Scores on each sub-scale thus range between 0 (no symptoms) and 21 (numerous and severe symptoms). Higher scores are indicative of more anxiety and depression, scores below 8 are considered to be in the normal range, 8-10 are borderline, and scores above 11 indicates a disorder of relevant mood., 12 weeks|Carer outcome measures. Fatigue (FACIT-F), The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F )31 This is a 13-item standalone scale with good psychometric properties and established minimally important difference. It is commonly used for the assessment of fatigue in lung cancer with good psychometric properties., 12 weeks
Lung cancer is responsible for 33,000 deaths each year in the UK and as disease cure is rarely possible, patient management is often aimed at symptom control. Breathlessness, cough and fatigue are common and distressing symptoms occurring in up to 90%, 47-86% and 50-90% of patients respectively. To date, research in relation to this group of symptoms has focussed on breathlessness, cough or fatigue as single symptoms. However, it is likely that ifa patient suffers from one symptom, they also suffer from one or both of the others. Collectively these symptoms are referred to as the Respiratory Distress Symptom Cluster.

Our group has developed a multi-modal Respiratory Distress Symptom Intervention (RDSI) for the self management of breathlessness, cough and fatigue. This study aims to determine the effects of adding the RDSI to usual care for the self-management of the Respiratory Distress Symptom Cluster for patients with lung cancer.

Patients who take part will be assigned to one of two groups; usual care or usual care plus the RDSI.