Ixabepilone and Cyclophosphamide as Neoadjuvant Therapy in HER-2 Negative Breast Cancer
We propose to evaluate ixabepilone in combination with cyclophosphamide for the neoadjuvant treatment of locally advanced breast cancer. In this regimen, ixabepilone is substituted for docetaxel, since preclinical and clinical

studies suggest that ixabepilone is more active than either docetaxel or paclitaxel. The combination of ixabepilone and cyclophosphamide could further improve the efficacy of non-anthracycline neoadjuvant therapy.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Ixabepilone|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Pathologic Complete Response Rate (pCR), Pathologic complete response (pCR) rate will be determined by the pathologic evaluation of breast and lymph node samples collected at the time of surgery. pCR is defined as no residual disease in breast or lymph nodes in resected tissue samples., 6 months
Absence of Grade-4 Non-hematologic Toxicity Excluding, Alopecia, Nausea, Vomiting and Bone Pain, Non hematologic treatment-related grade 4 toxicities measured according to CTCAE 3.0, 3 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) determined as the time between day 1 cycle 1 to the date of death from any cause. The percentage of patients who were alive at 3 years, estimated by Kaplan Meier method as the probability of being event free at 3 years is reported here., 36 months|Disease Free Survival, Defined as the time between Day 1 Cycle 1, and date of first documented recurrence, initiation of additional chemotherapy, or death., 36 Months
In this study, patients with early stage, HER2-negative breast cancer will receive neoadjuvant treatment with ixabepilone and cyclophosphamide given every three weeks for a total of six cycles. Following surgery patients with hormone receptor-positive tumors will receive anti-estrogen treatment. Patients may receive local regional radiation therapy after surgery per institutional guidelines at the investigator's discretion. Baseline tumor tissue and tumor tissue removed at the time of surgery will be tested by Oncotype Detailed Description (DX) assay to determine whether it is predictive of response to this neoadjuvant treatment regimen. This study will be one of the first investigations of the combination of ixabepilone and cyclophosphamide as neoadjuvant treatment for HER2-negative breast cancer. It will examine this treatment regimen for potential advantages gained from substitution of ixabepilone for a taxane and use of non-anthracycline agents.