Trial of LBH589 in Metastatic Thyroid Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the tumor response rate in patients with metastatic medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) or radioiodine resistant differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) after receiving treatment with LBH589 20 mg by mouth, three times weekly. Time to progression, overall survival, toxicity, tolerability, and Notch1 protein expression patterns will also be evaluated.
Thyroid Carcinoma
DRUG: LBH589
Tumor Response Rate to LBH589., per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v.1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI: "Response" includes Complete Response (CR, disappearance of all target lesions), or Partial Response (PR, \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions). "No Response" includes Stable Disease (SD, neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease), and Progressive Disease (PD, at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s).), Every 8 weeks.
Protein Expression Patterns of Notch1 in Thyroid Tissue Samples., End of study|Time to Progression of Thyroid Cancer, Progression is defined using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Time to progression is defined as the number of days from the day of first LBH589 administration to the day the patient experienced an event of disease progression or death, whichever came first. Progression was assessed every 3 months until death or up to 5 years, whichever occurred first., Every 3 months until progression up to 5 years|Overall Survival, For a given patient, overall survival (OS) is defined as the number of days from the day of first LBH589 administration until the patient's death. If a patient was alive at the time of analysis, then the patient's data is censored at the date of the last available evaluation.Survival was assessed every three months until death or final data analysis, whichever occurred first., Every 3 months up to 5 years|Impact of LBH589 on Tumor Markers for Thyroid Cancer, Change in serum Thyroglobulin level from baseline to end of treatment. Treatment continued until either extraordinary medical circumstances, disease progression, toxicity, subject withdrawal, or death. At the time subjects came off of study treatment for one of the reasons already listed, a sample was collected for tumor markers., Baseline and end of treatment, up to 1 year|Toxicity of LBH589, Most frequent toxicities at least possibly related to panobinostat, grades 2-4 (grading based on NCI common terminology criteria for adverse events CTCAE version 3). Toxicities were collected from the time the patient provided informed consent until 4 weeks after the patient stopped LBH589., Every 4 weeks, up to 5 years|Tolerability of LBH589, Tolerability and toxicity were not assessed separately, therefore tolerability is reported as toxicity., Every 4 weeks, up to 5 years
Medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) is a neuroendocrine tumor and accounts for 3-5% of cases of thyroid cancer. The majority of patients with MTC do not present with early stage disease. Differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) accounts for \>90% of all thyroid cancers. In a sub-set of patients, thyroid cells become resistant to I-131 radioiodine therapy and subsequently develop distant metastases. In both MTC and DTC, systemic chemotherapy for metastatic disease is largely ineffective.

LBH589 is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) with recently demonstrated activity to inhibit the Notch1 signaling pathway in MTC cancer cells and suppress tumor cell proliferation in DTC cancer cells. This clinical trial will evaluate the tumor response rate of LBH589 in patients with metastatic MTC or radioactive iodine resistant DTC.