Multi-parametric Ultrasound Versus Multi-parametric MRI for Prostate Cancer Detection
The goal of this cohort study is to investigate multiparametric ultrasound versus multiparametric MRI for clinically significant prostate cancer detection in patients scheduled for initial biopsy. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* whether the clinically significant prostate cancer detection rate of multiparametric ultrasound is comparable to multiparametric MRI
* the any cancer detection of multiparametric ultrasound versus multiparametric MRI

Participants will undergo multiparametric ultrasound and multiparametric MRI before prostate biopsy. In case of suspicious findings on ultrasound or MRI, they will undergo combined systematic biopsy and targeted biopsy. In case of nonsuspicious imaging finding, they will undergo systematic biopsy alone.
PROSTATE CANCER|Prostate Biopsy
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Prostate imaging|PROCEDURE: Prostate biopsy
clinically significant prostate cancer detection, The primary definition was Grade Group(GG) ≥ 2. The secondary definition included PROMIS definition 1 (GG ≥ 3 and/or maximal cancer core length ≥ 6 mm) and PROMIS definition 2 (GG ≥ 2 and/or maximal cancer core length ≥ 4 mm). The measurement that will be based on biopsy histopathology., Up to 12 weeks following imaging
Any cancer detection, Any cancer at biopsy histopathology. The measurement that will be based on biopsy histopathology., Up to 12 weeks following imaging|Clinically insignificant prostate cancer detection, Clinically insignificant prostate cancer at biopsy histopathology. The measurement that will be based on biopsy histopathology., Up to 12 weeks following imaging
In recent years, the multi-parametric MRI targeted biopsy showed inspiring results for improving clinically significant prostate cancer (PCa) detection rate \[1\]. Two techniques have been developed for MRI targeted prostate biopsy: in-bore MRI guided biopsy and MRI/ultrasound fusion biopsy. However, these biopsy techniques require specific equipment and software. Moreover, MRI has contradictions and cannot be performed in all patients. Therefore, an imaging targeted biopsy adjunct to MRI targeted biopsy is needed.

Besides MRI, multi-parametric ultrasound can also visualize PCa lesions by providing information about the blood supply, perfusion and stiffness of the prostate gland for PCa detection. Our hypothesis is as follows, (1) clinically significant PCa detection rate by multi-parametric ultrasound targeted biopsy is comparable with multi-parametric MRI targeted biopsy; (2) clinically significant PCa detection rate by either multi-parametric ultrasound targeted biopsy or multi-parametric ultrasound targeted biopsy is higher than standard systematic biopsy. Our secondary outcome also includes the any cancer detection rate and clinically insignificant prostate cancer detection rate.