Pain, Psychological, and Endocannabinoid Responses to Yoga in Breast Cancer Survivors With Chemotherapy-induced Neuropathic Pain
This study evaluates the acute effect of aerobic exercise and yoga on pain, plasma levels of endocannabinoids, and mood (i.e., mood disturbance and anxiety). Participants will complete three separate sessions on different days. The first session is a familiarization session in which participants complete questionnaires and are familiarized with the experimental protocols. During the second and third sessions, outcomes are measured before and after the participants complete either 44 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise (i.e., walking on a treadmill) or 44 minutes of yoga.
Breast Cancer|Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Neuropathic Pain
BEHAVIORAL: Aerobic exercise|BEHAVIORAL: Iyengar yoga
Change in Neuropathic Pain Sensations as determined by VAS, Visual analog scales (VAS) will be used to assess the intensity of the following sensations specific to neuropathic pain: pins and needles, tingles, stinging, and electrical pain sensations. The VAS is measured on a 100mm scale ranging from "No Pain" to "Worst Imaginable Pain.", This will be measured 2 times during each experimental session- once before the assigned exercise task (i.e., baseline) and once upon task completion (i.e., approx. 50 mins later), approximately week 1 and week 2 on study.|Change in cold pain threshold, The minimum cold temperature needed to elicit a pain response., This will be measured 2 times during each experimental session- once before the assigned exercise task (i.e., baseline) and once upon task completion (i.e., approx. 50 mins later), approximately week 1 and week 2 on study.
Change in total mood disturbance (Profile of Mood States), 65-item self-reported mood questionnaire that measures mood "right now." Scores range from 0-200 with higher scores indicating higher mood disturbance., This will be measured 2 times during each experimental session- once before the assigned exercise task (i.e., baseline) and once upon task completion (i.e., approx. 50 mins later), approximately week 1 and week 2 on study.|Change in plasma concentration of 2-Arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), Plasma concentration of 2-AG, one effector of the endocannabinoid system, This will be measured 2 times during each experimental session- once before the assigned exercise task (i.e., baseline) and once upon task completion (i.e., approx. 50 mins later), approximately week 1 and week 2 on study.
This study evaluates the acute effect of aerobic exercise and yoga on pain, plasma levels of endocannabinoids, and mood (i.e., mood disturbance and anxiety). Participants will complete three separate sessions on different days. The first session is a familiarization session in which participants complete questionnaires and are familiarized with the experimental protocols. During the second and third sessions, outcomes are measured before and after the participants complete either 44 minutes of moderate aerobic exercise (i.e., walking on a treadmill) or 44 minutes of yoga.