Alisertib With and Without Rituximab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well alisertib with and without rituximab works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Alisertib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Giving alisertib with and without rituximab may be an effective treatment for B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma
Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: alisertib|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) to Alisertib Alone, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 18 weeks (6 courses)
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 6 weeks (2 courses)|Overall Response Rate (ORR), 95% binomial confidence intervals calculated., 12 weeks (4 courses)|Overall Response Rate(ORR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 18 weeks (6 courses)|Complete Response Rate (CR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 6 weeks (2 courses)|Complete Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 12 weeks (4 courses)|Overall Survival, Graphically summarized using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Time from study entry to the time of death due to any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Progression-free Survival, Graphically summarized using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., Time from study entry to the time of progression and/or death, assessed up to 1 year|Complete Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 18 weeks (6 courses)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of MLN8237 (alisertib) alone in patients with relapsed and refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and transformed NHL.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of MLN8237 when combined with rituximab in NHL patients who fail to respond to MLN8237 alone in patients with relapsed and refractory NHL and transformed NHL.

II. To determine specific toxicities associated with MLN8237 alone and when combined with rituximab (in NHL patients) in patients with relapsed and refractory NHL and transformed NHL.

III. To determine pharmacokinetics of MLN8237 alone and in combination with rituximab (for NHL patients) in patients with relapsed and refractory NHL and transformed NHL.

IV. To evaluate specific molecular characteristics of the NHL for patients treated with MLN8237 alone and with rituximab in order to correlate particular molecular markers with response and survival.

V. To evaluate long term survival of patients treated with MLN8237 alone and with rituximab.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

COHORT A: Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7. Patients unable to achieve complete response (CR) after course 4 also receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1 of courses 5-12. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT B: Patients receive alisertib as in Cohort A. Patients achieving stable disease (SD) or asymptomatic progressive disease after 2 courses also receive rituximab IV on day 1 of courses 3-10. Patients unable to achieve CR by course 4, receive rituximab as in Cohort A. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 2 years and then every 6 months.