Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of vaccine therapy in treating patients with metastatic solid tumors. Vaccines made from antibodies and peptides combined with tumor cells may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells.
Malignant Solid Tumour|Breast Cancer|Malignant Tumor of Colon|GIST|Ovarian Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: HER-2 vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Extension HER-2 vaccine trial at OBD
Type and duration of immune response measured over time to repeat vaccine administration, Immune response will be defined by Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), Flow cytometry, T-cell proliferation and cytokine. The magnitude of antibody levels will be assessed to the vaccine and HER-2 over-expressing cells (e.g.,BT474). Lymphoproliferative responses will be assessed by a non radioactive cell proliferation assay Bioplex human isotyping kit will be used to assess antibody types and cytokine profiles., up to 6 months|Clinical benefit will be assessed, Will re-evaluate disease status with tumor markers and RESIST criteria,or full evaluation upon development of new symptoms, up to 6 months
Evaluation of safety and toxicity at regular intervals by NCI common toxicity criteria (CTCAE v 4.0), Safety will be defined if patients are able to receive all 3 vaccinations without dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), any incidence of grade 3 hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity or any incidence of Grade 4 toxicity. The development of a positive skin test to the vaccine immediate hypersensitivity, up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform early phase clinical trial assessing safety and clinical toxicity of immunization, and as well as to establish an optimal biological dose (OBD) of combination vaccines with n-muramyldipeptide derivative (nor-MDP) as adjuvant emulsified in Montanide (ISA 720).

II. To establish whether an OBD of two combination vaccines is achieved. III. To measure both humoral and cellular immune responses including the specificity, class and kinetics of anti-human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER-2) peptide.

IV. To evaluate whether the combination of HER-2 epitopes show therapeutic benefit, provide synergistic and/or additive effects and to enumerate mechanisms of action.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect and analyze post-immune sera and peripheral blood cells for additional six months post the last injection.

II. To document any clinical responses that may occur.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive a HER2/neu peptide vaccine comprising measles virus epitope MVF-HER-2 (266-296) and MVF-HER-2 (597-626) emulsified with nor-MDP in ISA 720 intramuscularly (IM) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.

OUTLINE: EXTENSION TRIAL AT OBD

The dose-escalation (4 cohorts) has successfully completed with the accrual of 24 patients and the Optimum biological dose (OBD) has been determined as the dose at cohort level 2.

The next phase of the study progresses directly into an extension trial at the OBD. 12 patients will be accrued at that level. The extension cohort will be open to only HER-2 and/or EGFR overexpressing cancers. Patients (all gastrointestinal,ovarian and breast must have received no more than three prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens in the last two years after standard therapy. Patients (breast, ovarian and gastrointestinal cancers) must have received no more than three prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens in the last two years after standard therapy.