Cement Augmentation in Preventing Vertebral Body Compression Fracture Following Spine Stereotactic Radiosurgery in Patients With Solid Tumors and Spinal Metastases
This randomized phase II trial studies how well cement augmentation works in preventing vertebral body compression fracture following spine stereotactic radiosurgery in patients with solid tumors that have spread to the spine. Spine stereotactic radiosurgery delivers a high dose of radiation to vertebral metastases and can sometimes lead to a vertebral compression fracture. Using body cement on the largest part of the vertebra (a procedure called vertebral body cement augmentation) may help prevent a fracture after stereotactic spinal radiosurgery. It may also lessen pain and improve quality of life in patients with solid tumors and spinal metastases undergoing this surgery.
Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Spine|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Management of Therapy Complications|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Vertebral compression fracture rate, Will compare the 3-month vertebral compression fracture proportions between treatment groups using the Fisher exact test. Will be performed on the intention-to-treat principle., At 3 months
Time to first new or progressive vertebral body fracture, To assess the impact of prophylactic cement augmentation on time to first new or progressive vertebral body fracture, will use the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate the freedom from fracture curves and Cox proportional hazards regression analysis to estimate the hazard ratio with confidence intervals and associated p-values., Up to 2 years|Pain control, assessed using the Brief Pain Inventory form, Will use mixed effects linear models to analyze this longitudinal data., Up to 2 years|Quality of life, assessed using the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory-Spine Tumor form, Participants are asked to recall symptom severity and interference during the past 24 hours. Part I, The severity of the symptoms, including pain, fatigue, nausea, disturbed sleep, short of breath etc. Part II, How have the symptoms interfered with patient life, including mood, work, relations with other people etc. Part I, range 0-10. A score of 0 would mean the symptom is not present and a score of 10 means the symptom is as bad as you can imagine). Part II, range 0-10 (A score of 0 would mean the symptom did not interfere; A score of 10 means the symptom has interfered completely. The ratings in the MDASI can be averaged into several subscale scores: mean core symptom severity, mean module symptom severity, mean total symptom severity, and mean interference. The interference items can further be broken down into mean activity interference and mean affective interference. Symptom items may be presented individually, Up to 2 years|Local control, Will estimate time to first local failure curves using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will use the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Incidence of post-treatment adverse events, Will estimate the difference in grade 3+ toxicity rates, with 95% confidence intervals and a chi-squared test p-value., Up to 2 years|Radiographic vertebral body fracture, pain control and quality of life assessment, Will assess the relationship between radiographic vertebral body fracture, pain control and quality of life using correlation analyses. Additional analyses may be conducted as appropriate., Up to 2 years|Quality of life, assessed using the EuroQol 5-dimensional 5-level questionnaire., Will use mixed effects linear models to analyze this longitudinal data. The questionnaire consists 2 parts.

Part 1 is descriptive system (participants are asked mobility, self-care status, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression, and each dimension has 5 levels;

Part 2 is the Visual analogue scale (the self-rated health today with score 0-100; 100 means the best health you can imagine. 0 means the worst health you can imagine) Part 2, participants give self-rated health today with 100 means the best health you can imagine. 0 means the worst health you can imagine. Part 2, higher range represents a better outcome, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether prophylactic cement augmentation reduces new or progressive vertebral body fracture at 3 months in high risk patients undergoing single fraction spine stereotactic radiosurgery.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact of prophylactic cement augmentation on time to first new or progressive vertebral body fracture.

II. To assess the impact of prophylactic cement augmentation on pain control measured every three months post treatment.

III. To assess the impact of prophylactic cement augmentation on quality of life measured every three months post treatment.

IV. To estimate local control in each arm. V. To estimate overall survival in each arm. VI. To document and assess post-treatment adverse side effects between the two arms.

VI. To document and assess the relationship between radiographic vertebral body fracture, pain control and quality of life.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo stereotactic spinal radiosurgery per standard of care.

ARM II: Patients undergo vertebral body cement augmentation within 4 weeks before or after standard stereotactic spinal radiosurgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.