Prevention of Sagopilone-induced Neurotoxicity With Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALC)
This study investigates the safety and efficacy of Acetyl-L-Carnitine and compares it to the safety and efficacy of a placebo (inactive) tablet in the prevention of Sagopilone-induced peripheral neuropathy. Patients will receive intravenous infusion of sagopilone for 3 hours on day 1 of a 3-weeks cycle. Treatment with Sagopilone will be given as long as the patient is benefitting. In addition patients will receive ALC or placebo, starting 1 week before first sagopilone infusion and ending 30-33 days after the last infusion with sagopilone. Safety will be determined by laboratory and other evaluations. Efficacy of ALC will be determined by the incidence of all grades of peripheral neuropathy with the results of a patient questionnaire. Efficacy of the combination of ALC and Sagopilone will be determined by the tumor response.
Prostate Cancer|Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Sagopilone 16 mg/m^2 i.v., Acetyl-L-Carnitine (ALC) 1000 mg tid, HRPC only: Prednisone or Prednisolone 5 mg bid|DRUG: Sagopilone 16 mg/m^2 i.v. and placebo 1000 mg tid, HRPC only: Prednisone or Prednisolone 5 mg bid
Overall incidence of peripheral neuropathy (any grade) during at most 6 cycles of Sagopilone treatment, based on the Adverse Events., Start of Sagopilone treatment until at most 6 cycles + 1 month.
Efficacy of ALC: incidence of neuropathy of grade 3 or 4, time to onset of neuropathy, duration of neuropathy., Start of treatment to safety Follow-up|Efficacy of ALC: Percentage of discontinuations due to neuropathy., Start of treatment to safety Follow-up|Safety of Sagopilone in combination with ALC., Baseline to Safety follow-up|Efficacy of Sagopilone: 'best overall response' according to modRECIST criteria, Start treatment to End of Treatment|Efficacy of Sagopilone: 'best overall response' according to CA-125 or PSA response, Start treatment to End of Treatment|Efficacy of Sagopilone: Time to disease progression, Progression-free survival, Start treatment to Progression or Death|Efficacy of Sagopilone: Duration of response, Start treatment to Progression or Death|Efficacy of Sagopilone: WHO performance status., Screening to end of Treatment|Pharmacokinetic: Sagopilone concentrations (optional), Day 1,2,3,5,15 of cycle 1 and day2|Pharmacokinetic: ALC concentrations, radomisation, day 1 of cycle 1 and 2|Pharmacogenomics (optional): in tumor tissue, blood and ascites, Blood sample at screening, tissue sample and ascites whenever available
This study investigates the safety and efficacy of Acetyl-L-Carnitine and compares it to the safety and efficacy of a placebo (inactive) tablet in the prevention of Sagopilone-induced peripheral neuropathy. Patients will receive intravenous infusion of sagopilone for 3 hours on day 1 of a 3-weeks cycle. Treatment with Sagopilone will be given as long as the patient is benefitting. In addition patients will receive ALC or placebo, starting 1 week before first sagopilone infusion and ending 30-33 days after the last infusion with sagopilone. Safety will be determined by laboratory and other evaluations. Efficacy of ALC will be determined by the incidence of all grades of peripheral neuropathy with the results of a patient questionnaire. Efficacy of the combination of ALC and Sagopilone will be determined by the tumor response.