Developing Optimal Parameters for Hyperpolarized Noble Gas and Inert Fluorinated Gas MRI of Lung Disorders
The goal of this research is to optimize the MRI system to obtain ideal lung images using Hyperpolarized (HP) Noble and Inert Fluorinated Gases as contrast agents. Lung coils tuned to the frequencies of these gases will be used. This study will take place at TBRHSC in the Cardiorespiratory Department and in the Research MRI facility.
Lung Transplant|Lung Resection|Lung Cancer|Asthma|Cystic Fibrosis|Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease|Emphysema|Mesothelioma|Asbestosis|Pulmonary Embolism|Interstitial Lung Disease|Pulmonary Fibrosis|Bronchiectasis|Seasonal Allergies|Cold Virus|Lung Infection|Pulmonary Hypertension|Pulmonary Dysplasia|Obstructive Sleep Apnea
DRUG: HP 3He|DRUG: HP 129Xe|DRUG: PFP|DRUG: SF6|DEVICE: 129Xe Small and Large Human Lung Coil|DEVICE: 3He Human Lung Coil|DEVICE: PFP and SF6 Human Lung Coil
Signal to Noise Ratio, The primary objective of this study is to determine an optimized set of scan parameters that will produce clear, anatomically and clinically relevant images of the lungs for healthy participants and various types of lung disorder participants, and using one or more gas type (3He, 129Xe, PFP, SF6)., 2 years
Correlation with PFTs, The secondary objective of this study is to correlate the results with PFTs, including spirometry and plethysmography., 2 years
MR images of the lung obtained using HP 3He, HP 129Xe, and inert fluorinated gases essentially show the distribution of the inhaled gas inside the lungs. Measurements can be performed on these images to provide additional information that can be related to pulmonary function.

Participation will involve at least two study visits. During the first visit, participants will provide written, informed consent, and undergo eligibility screening. Study drug administration, use of the investigational devices, and MR imaging for this study will be performed at the 3T Research MRI at the Thunder Bay Regional Health Sciences Centre (TBRHSC). Pulmonary Function Tests (PFTs) will be performed at TBRHSC by a Registered Respiratory Therapist (RRT) and an MR Tech will be present for the duration of participant scans.

Participants will be placed in the MRI with the appropriate chest coil wrapped around them like a vest. Several inhalation procedures will be carried out during scanning. Participants safety will be closely monitored throughout the entire study.