Let's K-Talk - HPV Study for Ethnic Koreans
The goal of this clinical trial is to test the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of a storytelling video-based intervention using AI chatbot technology (K-Talk) to promote HPV vaccination behavior among Korean Americans aged 18 to 45.

The main questions this study aims to answer are:

* Is the K-Talk intervention feasible for use among Korean Americans aged 18 to 45?
* Is the K-Talk intervention acceptable to the target population?
* What is the preliminary efficacy of the K-Talk intervention in promoting HPV vaccination uptake?

Participants will be Korean Americans aged 18 to 45 who are at risk for HPV infection. Participants will be asked to complete a baseline survey and then will be "randomized" into one of four groups: Group 1 (chatbot + storytelling intervention), Group 2 (chatbot only), Group 3 (storytelling only), and Group 4 will be only exposed to written didactic HPV education materials. All groups will receive written didactic HPV education materials. Researchers will compare how Group 1, a combination of AI Chatbot and storytelling intervention is more effective than other intervention groups in promoting HPV vaccination uptake among underserved, hard-to-reach Korean Americans.
Human Papillomavirus Viruses|Papillomavirus Vaccines
OTHER: K-Talk Intervention (Storytelling and K-Bot)|OTHER: Storytelling Intervention|OTHER: K-Bot Intervention|OTHER: Written Information
Number of participants who completed 3 doses of HPV vaccines at 12-months, Completion of 3 doses of HPV vaccines, 12 months after the baseline|Number of participants who completed 3 doses of HPV vaccines at 6-months, Completion of 3 doses of HPV vaccines, 6 months after the baseline|Number of participants who received at least one dose of HPV vaccine at 3-month, Participants who received at least one dose of HPV vaccine at 3-month, 3-months after the baseline|Number of participants who received at least one dose of HPV vaccine at 6-month, Participants who received at least one dose of HPV vaccine at 6-month, 6-months after the baseline|Number of participants who received at least one dose of HPV vaccine at 12-month, Participants who received at least one dose of HPV vaccine at 12-month, 12-months after the baseline
Assessment of Knowledge about HPV and HPV Vaccines: A 34-Item Survey (True/False/I don't know), Higher scores represent better knowledge., at baseline and 3-month follow-up|Assessing Perceived Risk of HPV and Other STIs: A 17-Item Survey (on a 1-5 Likert scale), Higher scores indicate higher risk perceptions about HPV and STI, at baseline and 3-month follow-up|Assessment of Intention to Receive HPV Vaccine: Two Items Self-Report, Two questions will be used to assess participants' intention to receive HPV vaccines: "Do you intend to get the HPV vaccine?" and "How likely is it that you will get an HPV vaccine in the next 3 months?", at baseline, 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month follow-up
The objective of this study is to conduct a pilot Multiphase Optimization Strategy trial (MOST) to evaluate the acceptability, feasibility, and preliminary efficacy of K-Talk as an intervention to improve HPV vaccination initiation and completion among Korean American men and women. K-Talk is a user-centered intervention that combines AI chatbot technology with storytelling to enhance health communication, foster connection, and provide accurate advice related to HPV vaccination. The study design follows an optimization phase of the MOST, utilizing a 2 x 2 factorial design with two factors (storytelling and chatbot) and two levels (Yes/On and No/Off). The study aims to recruit a total of 160 participants, with 40 participants assigned to each experimental condition. The sample will consist of 80 males and 80 females who are eligible for participation in factorial experimentation using the MOST design. Interested individuals will undergo an online eligibility screening survey. If eligible for the study, participants will receive an online survey link containing informed consent, a baseline survey, written HPV information, and random assignment to an intervention group.