New Treatment Option for Pancreatic Cancer
In the United States, approximately 30,000 new cases of pancreatic cancer are diagnosed each year and an almost equal number of deaths are related to this cancer. Different types of chemotherapeutic treatments are used that target different parts of the cancer cell with some success, but there is room for other treatment options.

It is known that people with cancer are using high doses of intravenous vitamin C also known as ascorbate, as a cancer treatment and this is occurring frequently. When Vitamin C is given in this manner, it is not taken by mouth; instead, it enters your body through an IV (intravenous) site, or tube that is inserted through a needle into your vein. If you have a port-a-cath in place, the IV will be given using your port. When Vitamin C enters your body through an IV site, it is known that it acts like a drug and not a vitamin. It produces a substance around the cancer cells called hydrogen peroxide. It has been seen in animal research studies that hydrogen peroxide kills the cancer cells while leaving the normal cells unharmed.

Currently the FDA does not approve the use of high-dose intravenous Vitamin C as a cancer treatment. The use of intravenous Vitamin C in this study is experimental. Furthermore, it is important to know that we do not expect the intravenous Vitamin C given in this study to be healing for the treatment of your cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Intravenous Vitamin C|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Determine safety of combined gemcitabine chemotherapy with IV ascorbate., This will be accomplished by enrolling up to 14 participants fitting inclusion criteria into the Phase I portion of the trial: 7 participants will be enrolled at the determined dose levels and if no significant adverse event is identified, then 7 additional participants will be enrolled. Safety will be assessed by obtaining the following evaluations: toxicity graded by the NCI CTCAE v 4.0, urinalysis pre- and post-infusion, ECG, basic metabolic panel, bicarbonate (pH surrogate marker), CBC, and osmolality., 12 months
Assess pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic interactions when adding IV AA to front-line gemcitabine chemotherapy in the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer not eligible for surgical resection., By measuring PK data when combining gemcitabine chemotherapy along with IV ascorbate on the same day, it will be determined if there are reduced gemcitabine levels in the presence of ascorbate. Initially 7 participants will be enrolled and if no significant interaction defined, an additional 7 will be enrolled., 12 months
The purpose of this study is to determine if it is safe to give Vitamin C by the vein at high doses to people with pancreatic cancer and if Vitamin C interferes with how well the chemotherapy works on cancer cells. This study will also look at how the body processes of Vitamin C. This study will also help researchers to learn more about long Vitamin C stays in the blood stream, and how rapidly it is used by the body.