ETERNALS: Remote Monitoring in Lung Cancer Patients
The primary objective of this project is to determine the feasibility of an integrated remote monitoring system in the routine care of lung cancer patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Remote Monitoring|Mobile Health|Chemotherapy Effect
DEVICE: Oura Ring
Time interval, Determining the time interval between clinical deterioration detected by the integrated remote monitoring system and the first contact with the care team (i.e., in current clinical practice the patient suffering from chemotherapy-associated symptoms self-reports at the ED), 18 months|Compliance, Patient compliance in using the integrated remote monitoring system which will be determined via: number of missed measurements, number of telephonic/physical contact moments related to the technology, 18 months
System Usability scale to assess usability and acceptability of the remote monitoring system, Acceptability and usability of the integrated remote monitoring system by both the patient and the healthcare specialists. This will be assessed using the following questionnaire: System Usability scale (SUS). The scale varies from 1-5, corresponding with 1 being strongly disagree and 5 strongly agree. Depending on the question, the score can be found either positive/negative., 18 months|mobile Health App Usability Questionnaire to assess usability & acceptability of the remote monitoring system, Acceptability and usability of the integrated remote monitoring system by both the Acceptability and usability of the integrated remote monitoring system by both the patient and the healthcare specialists. This will be assessed using the following questionnaire: mobile Health App Usability Questionnaire (MAUQ). The scale varies from 1-7, with 1 corresponding to 'disagree' and 7 corresponding to 'agree'. Depending on the question, the score can be found either positive/negative., 18 months|Number of ED visits, Determine the number of ED visits retrospectively, including the disease- and therapy related/induced complications (retrospective sub-study), 18 months
Lung cancer is a highly prevalent malignant tumor with 5.563 new cases in Belgium in 20201. Up to 70% of patients present with locally advanced or metastatic disease at diagnosis 1. Most of these patients require systemic therapy including cytotoxic chemotherapy as part of their treatment plan. The mortality rate in this patient population remains high due to the aggressive nature of the disease, but also due to treatment related toxicities such as dehydration, infection, and anemia, resulting in emergency department (ED) visits and rehospitalizations. Routine administration of highly effective anti-emetics and the use of granulocyte colony-stimulating growth factors greatly reduced the complication rate in these patients 2, 3. Also, remote symptom monitoring using a web-based tool to which patients can self-report their toxicities (i.e., patient-reported outcomes; PROs) had a marked impact on reducing ED visits and increasing overall survival in the patient-reported outcome (PRO) group 4-6. Despite these successes there is still a large proportion of lung cancer patients for whom weekly self-reports are not feasible. More specific: low socio-economic status, elderly patients and social isolation are associated with low compliance 7, 8. The latter lung cancer patient subgroup is at the highest risk of under-detection when presenting with treatment- or disease-related toxicity. The investigators hypothesize that implementation of an integrated remote monitoring system tracking heart rate, heart rate variability, body temperature, respiration rate, nocturnal oxygen saturation, sleep tracking and daily activity level via an unobtrusive wearable device is more performant and less burdensome compared to other self-reporting methods (e.g., PROs). The primary aim of this project is to set up and implement an integrated remote monitoring system in the routine care of lung cancer patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy, in which the remote monitoring is enabled via an unobtrusive wearable device. Via this innovative implementation the investigators believe that patient care can be drastically improved due to the earlier detection of deterioration (i.e., less rehospitalizations and ED visits), especially for those high-risk frail patients.