Study to Assess the Effect of Metformin Supplementation on IVF Outcome in Patients With Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome.
This study was performed to investigate the effects of metformin on controlled ovarian stimulation (COS), in vitro fertilization (IVF) outcomes, pregnancy outcomes, and comparison of serum and follicular fluid cytokines and hormones in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) undergoing IVF using gonadotropin-releasing hormone(GnRH) antagonist protocol.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DRUG: Metformin
Number of mature(MII) oocyte, using polarized light microscopy, Day1(from the day of oocyte retrieval to fertilization confirmation)
Clinical pregnancy rate in %, Clinical pregnancy was defined as a viable pregnancy beyond 12 weeks gestation by ultrasonographic visualization., Pregnancy test was carried out at 11 days after embryo transfer and was classified as positive when the serum beta-human chorionic gonadotropin(hCG) level was over 5 IU/L. Than follow up to 12 weeks of gestation.|Miscarriage rate in %, Miscarriage was defined as a early loss of a pregnancy before 20 weeks of pregnancy., Pregnancy test was carried out at 11 days after embryo transfer and was classified as positive when the serum beta-human chorionic gonadotropin(hCG) level was over 5 IU/L. Than follow up to 20 weeks of gestation.|Total dose of follicle-stimulating hormone(FSH) used(IU), compare the ovarian response to controlled ovarian stimulation between two groups, average of 10 days, From the day of stimulation start with FSH to the day of oocyte retrieval|Total duration of FSH used(day), compare the ovarian response to controlled ovarian stimulation between two groups, average of 10 days, From the day of stimulation start with FSH to the day of oocyte retrieval|Number of oocytes retrieved, using polarized light microscopy, Day1(the day of oocyte retrieval)|Number of frozen 2 pronucleus(2PN) embryos, using polarized light microscopy, Day1((from the day of oocyte retrieval to fertilization confirmation)|Follicular fluid Tumor necrosis factor(TNF)-α level in pg/ml and follicular fluid Adiponectin level in pg/ml and follicular fluid Interleukin-6 level in pg/ml and follicular fluid Anti-mullerian hormone(AMH) level in pg/ml, At the day of oocyte retrieval, follicular fluids were collected from the follicles with a diameter over than 15mm. The fluids were frozen within 4 hours for the future analysis. All the samples were stored at -20℃ and were analysed in the biochemistry department of the study centre., Day 1|Serum TNF-α level in pg/ml and serum Adiponectin level in pg/ml and serum Interleukin-6 level in pg/ml and serum AMH level in pg/ml and serum Testosterone level in pg/ml and serum Estradiol level in pg/ml, Serum samples were obtained on the day of Metformin commencement and ovum pick up. Levels are measured by means of solid-phase enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay., Day 1
Polycystic ovary syndrome is the common cause of the female infertility that features insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia participate in the reproductive as well as metabolic disturbances.

In many studies, metformin treatment reduces androgen levels and attenuates hyperinsulinemia in women with PCOS. This favorable effect on insulin and androgens levels, justifies the use of metformin in reproductive disturbances in PCOS women. Metformin treatment was shown to diminish ovarian androgen secretion, while lowering insulin levels in women with PCOS.

In women with PCOS, metformin treatment may increase ovulation, improve menstrual cyclicity, and reduce seum androgen levels. Metformin has direct effects on the ovary and also reduces the level of insulin that act upon the ovary. It has been indicated that metformin has direct, insulin-independent actions on theca cell steroidogenesis, because in human ovarian theca-like tumor cells, metformin suppressed androstenedione production. Metformin also exert a direct effect on granulosa cells and subsequent reduction of steroid production.

Metformin was shown to improve endothelium dependent vasodilation in insulin resistant patients and potentially protect against atherogenesis and cardiovascular disease.

Considering gonadotropin ovulation induction or IVF in women with PCOS, metformin coadministration improves the pregnancy outcome and reduces the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. Metformin therapy throughout pregnancy can reduce the risk of early miscarriage or the incidence of gestational diabetes.

All patients were pretreated for 3 weeks with monophasic oral contraceptive (OC)(Yasmin; Bayer Schering Pharma, Berlin, Germany) before COS. Five days after OC discontinuation, COS for IVF/ICSI was commenced. GnRH antagonist protocol was used for COS in all subjects. Patients were randomly allocated into the metformin or control groups, using sealed envelopes.