EMBr Wave for the Reduction of Hot Flashes in Women With a History of Breast Cancer
This trial studies how well EMBr Wave technology works in reducing hot flashes in women with a history of breast cancer. Hot flashes are a common symptom experienced by menopausal women. The standard treatment for hot flashes is hormone replacement therapy, however hormone replacement therapy cannot be used in women with a history of, or active, breast cancer. EMBr Wave is a personal heating and cooling device worn on the wrist. EMBr Wave may help reduce hot flash severity in women with a history of breast cancer.
Breast Carcinoma|Breast Ductal Carcinoma In Situ|Breast Lobular Carcinoma In Situ|Hot Flashes
DEVICE: EMBr Wave|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Device Usage, Feasibility will be evaluated primarily with respect to device usage. The proportion of patients who wear the device for at least 8 hours between 8:00 am and 8:00 pm for at least 22 days will be estimated using the entire sample and a 95% Jeffreys interval for binomial proportions will be computed., Up to 8 weeks|Patient Satisfaction, Feasibility will be evaluated secondarily with respect to patient satisfaction. The mean patient satisfaction scores for each Likert-type question and proportion of patients reporting satisfaction scores at or above 7 will be estimated in the entire sample and compared between sequence groups at the 5% significance level (two-sided).Rated on a 10-point Likert scale with 10 being most satisfied or most effective., At 8 weeks
Effect of EMBr Wave Using Hot Flash-Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS), Reported via patient reported outcomes, primarily Hot Flash-Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS), a scale of 0-10 with 0 being no interference (best outcome) and 10 being completely interfere (worst outcome). Survey administered on paper or via RedCap survey distribution at week 4 and week 8., At week 4 and at week 8
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the feasibility of using EMBr Wave technology in women with a history of breast cancer who are experiencing bothersome hot flashes.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of EMBr Wave in reducing hot flash severity and frequency in women with a history of breast cancer.

II. To identify in what ways EMBr Wave has the greatest potential efficacy, such as reduction in vasomotor symptoms (VMS) severity, frequency, duration, sense of control, or self-esteem.

III. To estimate effect sizes to inform power calculations for a future phase III trial.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients utilize the EMBr Wave device for 4 weeks, then crossover to arm B for 4 weeks.

ARM B: Patients receive no treatment for 4 weeks, then crossover to arm A for 4 weeks.