Sense of Hope Alleviates Fatigue in Breast Cancer Survivors
This study explores the relationship between the sense of hope and fatigue in breast cancer survivors and provides a reference for future planning improvements for breast cancer survivors experiencing fatigue.
Carcinoma of Male Breast
Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short Form, A 30-item self-report questionnaire designed to assess the severity, frequency, and daily pattern of fatigue as well as its perceived interference with quality of life., Baseline measured after the completion of breast cancer surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy
Herth Hope Index, A 12-item self-report questionnaire containing three dimensions: temporality and future, positive readiness and expectancy, and interconnectedness. Tested on family caregivers of terminally ill people and terminally ill persons as well as in community and hospital patients and family members. (Herth, 1990), Baseline measured after the completion of breast cancer surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy|The Inventory of Socially Supportive Behaviors, A 40-item self-report questionnaire designed to assess how often individuals received various forms of assistance during the preceding month, such as directive guidance (e.g., offering advice), nondirective support (e.g., listening and reflecting), positive social exchange (e.g., expressing confidence and encouragement), and tangible assistance (e.g., providing materials or services). (Barrera, Sandler, \& Ramsay, 1981)., Baseline measured after the completion of breast cancer surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy
Breast cancer is an important and escalating issue for females all over the world. Due to the improvement of medical and technological progress, the survival rate of breast cancer patient increases every year. Breast cancer survivors, after the discomforting distress from cancer treatment, will go through treatment-derived physical distress and worry about relapse. As a result the fatigue in breast cancer survivors has not been reduced after primary treatment. Feeling fatigue in a long term will bring mental illness problems ,decrease the quality of life and weaken the will to survive. A sense of hope in the face of fatigue may serve as an important driving force and enhance the survivors' will to survive. This study explores the relationship between the sense of hope and fatigue in breast cancer survivors and provides a reference for future planning improvements for breast cancer survivors experiencing fatigue.

A cross-sectional study design is adopted for this study. The study expects to collect 200 questionnaires from breast cancer survivors through medical centers treating breast cancer and breast cancer patients communities. The questionnaire includes (a) the basic demographic information (b) disease history (c) social support scale; (d) short version multiaxial fatigue syndrome scale; (e) Hearst hope scale.

Answered questionnaires will be input to spreadsheets for further statistical analysis using SPSS 19.0 statistical software packages.