Supportive Programs for Supporting Optimal Recovery in Participants Undergoing Gynecological Surgery
This trial studies how well two different supportive programs work in supporting optimal recovery in participants undergoing gynecological surgery. Supportive programs use different methods for helping participants cope with the surgical experience including gentle movements, counseling, writing, or relaxation techniques, and may help improve participants' well-being after gynecological surgery.
Ovarian Neoplasm|Uterine Neoplasm
OTHER: Informational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|BEHAVIORAL: Telephone-Based Intervention
Percentage of Participants Retained in the Study, Will provide quantitative data to guide future study planning. Will calculate 95% confidence intervals for each of the feasibility measures to determine the range of estimates that are consistent with the data. Will track the number of screened participants, those who are eligible, and the percent who agree to participate. For those not meeting the eligibility criteria, reasons will be summarized. The proportion of participants and corresponding 95% CI for participants who participated in each group will be computed. Will use one-sample tests of binomial proportions to compare the recruitment, adherence, and retention rates to the hypothesized values of 50%, 70% and 70%, respectively., Up to 2 weeks|Percentage of Participants That Were Adhered to the Intervention, Will provide quantitative data to guide future study planning. Will calculate 95% confidence intervals for each of the feasibility measures to determine the range of estimates that are consistent with the data. Will track the number of screened participants, those who are eligible, and the percent who agree to participate. For those not meeting the eligibility criteria, reasons will be summarized. The proportion of participants and corresponding 95% CI for participants who participated in each group will be computed., Up to 5 weeks
Change in Pain Intensity Per Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS), Baseline analyses will include descriptive statistics of pain, background characteristics and other possible confounding variables by intervention group. The primary goal of the statistical analysis of these measures for this Aim will be to estimate standard deviations (SD) for use in future studies. A change in pain intensity between two or more time points (baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks) will be reported.

The PROMIS assesses pain on a numeric rating scale from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst imaginable pain), Baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks|Change in Affective Dimension of Pain, The affective dimension of pain will be assessed with one item on a scale from 0 (not bad at all) to 10 (the most unpleasant feeling possible for me). A higher score represent a higher affective dimension of pain for the participant. A change in score between two or more time points (baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks) will be reported., Baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks|Change in Pain Interference Per PROMIS Measure, Baseline analyses will include descriptive statistics of pain, background characteristics and other possible confounding variables by intervention group. The primary goal of the statistical analysis of these measures for this Aim will be to estimate standard deviations (SD) for use in future studies. Additional analyses will include fitting mixed analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) models (adjustment for baseline) to model the trajectory of pain by time and group accounting for the repeated measures on a subject. Score range is 0-100 with a higher score representing greater pain interference for the participant. A change in score between two or more time points (baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks) will be reported., Baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks|Change in Sleep Disturbances Per PROMIS Sleep Disturbance Short-form, Baseline analyses will include descriptive statistics of pain, background characteristics and other possible confounding variables by intervention group. The primary goal of the statistical analysis of these measures for this Aim will be to estimate standard deviations (SD) for use in future studies. Score range is 0-100 with higher scores representing a greater sleep disturbance for participants. A change in score between two or more time points (baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks) will be reported., Baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks|Change in Psychological Distress Per PROMIS Depression, Baseline analyses will include descriptive statistics of pain, background characteristics and other possible confounding variables by intervention group. The primary goal of the statistical analysis of these measures for this Aim will be to estimate standard deviations (SD) for use in future studies. Score range is 0-100 with the higher score representing greater depression in the participants. A change in score between two or more time points (baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks) will be reported., Baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks|Change in Psychological Distress Per PROMIS Anxiety, Baseline analyses will include descriptive statistics of pain, background characteristics and other possible confounding variables by intervention group. The primary goal of the statistical analysis of these measures for this Aim will be to estimate standard deviations (SD) for use in future studies. Score range is 0-100 with a higher score presenting a greater level of anxiety in the participants. A change in score between two or more time points (baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks) will be reported., Baseline, 2 weeks and 4 weeks|Incidence of Adverse Events Per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, Will describe any adverse events reported as frequencies., Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To calculate recruitment, adherence, assessment completion, and retention rates.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Document the frequency of adverse events. II. Assess descriptive data on proposed outcomes (i.e., pain, sleep disturbances, psychological distress) for the next phase of study.) III. Qualitatively assess acceptability to guide future study planning.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I (MINDFUL MOVEMENT AND BREATHING \[eMMB\]): Participants will receive instruction on awareness meditation, breathing and relaxation, and awareness meditation. This will include a call with the interventionist to invite participants to initiate additional guidance upon request prior to surgery and a meeting by videoconferencing the day following surgery. Participants will also be given a self-directed video to be used before surgery and daily for two weeks following surgery.

GROUP II (ATTENTION CONTROL \[AC\]): Participants will receive caring attention. This will include a call with the interventionist to invite participants to initiate additional guidance upon request prior to surgery and a meeting by videoconferencing the day following surgery. Participants are also asked to write brief diary entries once before surgery and daily for two weeks following surgery.