Kinesiology Taping Technique in Post-mastectomy Breast Cancer Related Lymphedema
Generally, Breast cancer related to lymphedema is commonly found in the female population after mastectomy. It has many complications which affects the normal functions of an individual and quality of life. This randomized control trial will be conducted on patients who are admitted as patients after mastectomy to determine the effects of kinesiology taping technique in post mastectomy breast cancer related lymphedema on swelling, upper limb function and strength.
Post Mastectomy Lymphedema
OTHER: Kinesiology taping technique with exercise therapy|OTHER: Compression decongestive therapy
Change form baseline in upper limb function on the upper limb functional index at sixth session, tI is a questionnaire to quantify the disability in people with upper extremity conditions.The patient gives a score to each of 20 listed activities based on the difficulty in completing the activities. It consists of 20 activities items in which a score range from 0 to 80. Where, 80 score shows a high level of function and 0 shows disability, each activity score is 0 to 4.This measurement is used for upper limb function and self-reported by patient., Baseline and 2 weeks|Change form baseline in upper limb function on the upper limb functional index at twelfth session, It is a questionnaire to quantify the disability in people with upper extremity conditions.The patient gives a score to each of 20 listed activities based on the difficulty in completing the activities. It consists of 20 activities items in which a score range from 0 to 80. Where, 80 score shows a high level of function and 0 shows disability, each activity score is 0 to 4.This measurement is used for upper limb function and self-reported by patient., Baseline and 4 weeks|Change from baseline in upper limb volume on tape measure at sixth session, It is a tool used for the arm circumference measurements and to evaluate the degree of lymphedma. The Patient sits on a chair and his arm is flexed to 900. First measure is taken at the wrist and after 10cm proximal to wrist and so on, Baseline and 2 week|Change from baseline in upper limb volume on tape measure at sixth session, It is a tool used for the arm circumference measurements and to evaluate the degree of lymphedma. The Patient sits on a chair and his arm is flexed to 900. First measure is taken at the wrist and after 10cm proximal to wrist and so on, Baseline and 4 weeks|Change from baseline in upper limb strength on dynamometer and pinch meter at sixth session, It is a measurement tool used in physiotherapy to assess the highest isometric strength of hand grasp and fingers. It consists of a hydraulic system with a changeable handle size. It measures the strength in pounds/square inch (psi, Baseline and 2 weeks|Change from baseline in upper limb strength on dynamometer and pinch meter at twelfth session, It is a measurement tool used in physiotherapy to assess the highest isometric strength of hand grasp and fingers. It consists of a hydraulic system with a changeable handle size. It measures the strength in kg., Baseline and 4 weeks
Generally, Breast cancer related to lymphedema is commonly found in the female population after mastectomy. It has many complications which affects the normal functions of an individual and quality of life. Traditional therapies like compression decongestive therapies and kinesiology taping techniques are used for the management of post mastectomy breast cancer related lymphedema.This randomized control trial will be conducted on patients who are admitted as patients after mastectomy to determine the effects of kinesiology taping technique in post mastectomy breast cancer related lymphedema on swelling, upper limb function and strength. Total 50 patients with post mastectomy who fulfill the inclusion criteria will be selected after taking consent. The subjects will be allocated into two groups through simple random sampling. Subjects ingroup A will be given kinesiology taping technique and exercise therapy whereas; patients in group B will be given compression decongestive therapy (manual lymphatic drainage, short stretch bandage and exercise therapy). All subjects will be assessed using assessment form, upper limb functional index, dynamometer, pinch meter and tape measure. Assessment will be conducted at base line, after 2 \& 4 weeks.