Hospital at Home at EOL in Heme Malignancies
This study is evaluating an intervention, which the investigators call "Optimize End of Life (EOL) Care at Home," that entails remote patient monitoring and home-based supportive care for patients with advanced hematologic malignancies.
Hematologic Malignancy
OTHER: End of Life (EOL) Care at at Home
Enrollment Rate, The primary endpoint is feasibility. The proposed intervention will be deemed feasible if at least 60% (95% confidence interval +/- 18%) of eligible patients are enrolled in the study., 6 months|Retention Rate, The primary endpoint is feasibility. The proposed intervention will be deemed feasible if at least 80% of enrolled participants will complete a minimum of 60% of their daily assessments (i.e. patient-reported symptoms), 6 months
Acceptability of the intervention, Qualitative acceptability ratings from patients, caregivers, and oncology clinicians defined by perceptions of usefulness, effectiveness, and relevance of the intervention obtained via interviews regarding acceptability from patients, family caregivers, and oncology clinicians., 6 months|Patient Quality of Life (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General - Fact-G), Change in quality of life as measured by the FACT-G throughout the study. FACT-G score ranges from 0 to 108 points with higher score indicating better quality of life, up to 6 months|Caregiver Quality of Life (CareGiver Oncology QOL), Change in caregiver quality of life as measured by the CarGOQOL throughout the study. Caregiver Oncology QOL questionnaire ranges from 0 to 100 points with higher scores indicating better caregiver quality of life, 6 months|Patient Symptom Burden (using the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale-revise), Change in patient symptom burden measured with Edmonton Symptom Assessment System-revised (ESAS-r). Scores range from 0-100 with higher scores indicate worse symptom burden., up to 6 months|Caregiver Burden, Caregiving burden will be assessed using the Caregiver Reaction Assessment (CRA) caregiving burden. The CRA score ranges from 24-120, with higher score indicating higher caregiving burden, up to 6 months|Health Care Utilization, Electronic Health Records (EHR) will be used to assess patient health care utilization including hospitalizations, chemotherapy use, and emergency department visits at the end of life., 6 months|Patient psychological distress (using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)), The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) will be used to assess patient psychological distress. The HADS score ranges from 0-21 with higher score indicating more psychological distress., Up to 6 months|Caregiver psychological distress (using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)), The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) will be used to caregiver psychological distress. The HADS score range from 0-21 with higher scores indicating worse psychological distress, Up to 6 months|Caregiver Satisfaction with patient's end of life (EOL) care using the FAMCARE, Nine items from the FAMCARE will be used to assess caregivers' satisfaction with the quality of medical services provided to them and the patient at the end of life. FAMCARE provides rating of quality of death on a scale of 0-10, with higher scores indicating best possible death. FAMCARE also provides a total score ranges 0-24, with higher score indicating better satisfaction with EOL care, Up to 6 months
This research study is a single arm pilot feasibility study, which is the first-time investigators are examining this care at home intervention in patients with advanced hematologic malignancies.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, questionnaires, remote patient monitoring (e.g. patient-reported symptoms, home monitored vital signs) and hospital care at home (e.g. providing maximal supportive care to to address and manage patients' symptoms) and structured communications oncology clinicians to optimize end of life care for patients with advanced hematologic malignancies.

Participants will include 3 groups:

1) Enrolled patients with advanced hematologic malignancies receiving the end of life (EOL) care at home intervention; 2) caregivers of these patients; and 3) oncology clinicians caring for these patients.

Participants will be in this research study for approximately six months after consent. It is expected that about 30 patients, 30 caregivers, and 15 oncology clinicians will take part in this research study.

Medically Home company is supporting this research study by providing funding.