Lenvatinib and Pembrolizumab Maintenance Therapy for the Treatment of Patients of Advanced Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effects of lenvatinib and pembrolizumab maintenance therapy in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has spread to other places in the body (advanced) and cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Lenvatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving lenvatinib and pembrolizumab may be effective as a maintenance therapy in patients with pancreatic cancer.
Advanced Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib Mesylate|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Progression free survival, Progression and response will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 and immune-modified (i)RECIST., At 4 months
Progression-free survival, Time to disease progression/ relapse or death as a result of any cause from start of lenvatinib-pembrolizumab therapy (patients censored at last contact if no progression/relapse or death), assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival, Time to death as a result of any cause from start of lenvatinib-pembrolizumab therapy (patients censored at last contact if no death), assessed, up to 1 year|Time to treatment failure, Time to treatment termination for any reason (progression, toxicity, death, patient preference) from start of lenvatinib-pembrolizumab therapy (patients still on treatment will be censored at last contact), up to 1 year|Response (partial response or complete response), Up to 1 year|Duration of response, Up to 1 year|Incidence of adverse events, Based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0., Up to 30 days after last dose
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS) of lenvatinib mesylate (lenvatinib)-pembrolizumab as maintenance therapy in patients with advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer who have achieved partial response or stable disease following 1st or 2nd line therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability associated with the combination of lenvatinib-pembrolizumab as maintenance therapy for patients with advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer.

II. To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR), including confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response and duration of response, of patients treated with lenvatinib-pembrolizumab in the subset of patients with measurable disease.

III. To evaluate if potential gains in PFS translates into an overall survival (OS) benefit for patients with pancreatic cancer being treated with lenvatinib-pembrolizumab in the maintenance setting.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I .To investigate whether lenvatinib-pembrolizumab induces measurable immune-related systemic changes in peripheral blood over the course of therapy by flow cytometry using T cell markers (e.g. CD4+, CD8+, PD1, TIM-3, LAG-3, TOX nuclear factor).

II. To conduct an exploratory study to identify global changes in expression of tumor-related genes using needle biopsy samples of PDA tumors obtained prior to and within one week after the 3rd cycle of pembrolizumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and lenvatinib mesylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then up to 1 year.