VIBE - Virtual Image Guided Brachytherapy Emulation for Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer (LACC)
This study will evaluate the role of SBRT with the aim to reproduce high dose rate brachytherapy (HDR BT) dose distribution by means of external beam radiotherapy in the radical treatment in patients with LACC. The study will employ devices to accurately reproduce pelvic anatomy and mitigate target motion and will make use of real-time online tracking.
Cervical Cancer
RADIATION: SBRT
Dosimetric Feasibility of SBRT boost, Fulfillment of protocol dosimetrical endpoints and constraints, through study completion, an average of 3 year|reproducibility of SBRT boost, anatomical accuracy will be confirmed with image guided (CBCT) and online tracking will guarantee a limit of 2mm threshold, Accuracy of treatment delivery will be measured during the 15 minutes of treatment delivery time|Inter/intra fractional target motion, 3D deviations recorded in CBCT images and electromagnetic recording, during the 15 minutes of treatment delivery time|Adverse Events, Treatment related side effects based on CTCAE V5.0, through study completion, an average of 3 years|Local control, Free from loco-regional relapse, through study completion, an average of 3 years
Quality of life metrics, Change from baseline in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire C30, through study completion, an average of 3 years|Quality of life metrics, Change from baseline in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire N24, through study completion, an average of 3 years|Distant Relapse, Free from distant relapse, through study completion, an average of 3 years
This is a phase I/II feasibility study of hypofractionated, image-guided Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy (VMAT) Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) to LACC with the aim to reproduce HDR BT dose distribution by means of external beam radiotherapy in the radical treatment in patients with LACC. The study will employ devices to accurately reproduce pelvic anatomy and mitigate target motion and will make use of real-time online tracking.

Eligible patients who consent to participate in the current study will receive 4 image-guided SBRT sessions to a prescription of 7 Gray per fraction to the LACC (HR-CTV) following whole pelvis external beam radiotherapy.

SBRT will start within one week after whole pelvis external beam radiotherapy. The study will enroll a total of 30 patients. After treatment, patients will be followed-up at 1 month, at 3 months (+/- 1 week), at 6 months (+/- 4 weeks), and then every 6 months (+/- 6 weeks) until the end of the 3rd year, then annually until the 5th year.

The equivalence of outcome and toxicity will be measured by comparing the data obtained in the study to literature data regarding the standard modality of brachytherapy. Patients' oncological outcomes, toxicity and quality of life data will be reported.