BIBW 2992 as add-on to Gem/Cis in Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer
An open-label, uncontrolled, multicenter phase I/Ib trial to investigate safety and efficacy of BIBW 2992 added to the standard therapy of Gemcitabine/Cisplatin in chemo-naïve patients with advanced and/or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the biliary tract
Metastatic Disease
DRUG: BIBW 2992
Number of Adverse Events, In part A the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BIBW 2992 administered continuously to the standard therapy of Gemcitabine / Cisplatin (Gem/Cis) (administered together on day 1 and 8 of a three-week cycle) will be evaluated in a 2 step dose escalation.

Safety and toxicity will be evaluated as described and considered primary for part B of the study., Treatment period: up to eight cycles (maximum 8 months). 12 months follow-up period.
Time to Progress (TTP), Median time to progress (according to RECIST 1.1 criteria) including the 95% confidence intervals were determined using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Time from start of treatment to first documentation of objective tumour progression. Deaths were censored at the time of death., Treatment period: up to eight cycles (maximum 8 months). 12 months follow-up period.|Overall Survival (OS), Median overall survival time including the 95% confidence interval were determined using Kaplan-Meier estimates., Time from start of treatment to death due to any cause. Time to last observation will be used if a patient has not died and OS for the patient will be considered censored. Estimated time period: up to 76 weeks|Objective Response Rate, Response was assessed by means of RECIST 1.1 criteria for target lesions, non-target lesions and the appearance of new lesions. Objective response was defined as the CR, PR or SD at end of treatment, Treatment period: up to eight cycles (maximum 8 months).|Tumor Control Rate, Tumor control rate is defined as the best tumour response (confirmed partial or complete response, stable disease) that is achieved until end of treatment according to Recist 1.1., Treatment period: up to eight cycles (maximum 8 months).
The primary objective is safety and toxicity, including maximum tolerated dose, of BIBW 2992 when given as add-on therapy to Gem/Cis.