The Effectiveness of Adding Braun Anastomosis to Standard Child Reconstruction After Pancreatoduodenectomy
The goal of this clinical trial (REMBRANDT) is to evaluate the effectiveness of adding an extra connection (i.e. 'Braun anastomosis') after standard reconstruction in pancreatic head resection in reducing the incidence of delayed gastric emptying.
Pancreatic Disease|Pancreatic Cancer|Delayed Gastric Emptying
PROCEDURE: Braun anastomosis|PROCEDURE: Standard Child reconstruction
Delayed gastric emptying (DGE), DGE is defined by the need for maintenance of the nasogastric tube (NGT), need for reinsertion of NGT for persistent vomiting after postoperative day (POD) 7, or inability to tolerate a solid diet., During hospitalization
Pancreatic fistula (POPF), Any measurable volume of drain output with an amylase level of more than 3 times the upper limit of normal serum amylase and clinically relevant condition or development of the patient directly related to the POPF., During hospitalization|Anastomotic leak, Anastomotic leaks of the hepatojejunostomy (HJ) or Braun enteroenterostomy (BE).

Anastomotic leaks of the HJ manifest as bile leakage. This is defined as "fluid with an increased bilirubin concentration in the abdominal drain or in the intra-abdominal fluid on or after postoperative day 3, or as the need for radiologic intervention because of biliary collections or relaparotomy resulting from bile peritonitis. Increased bilirubin in the drain is defined as bilirubin concentration more than 3 times greater than the serum bilirubin concentration.

An anastomotic leak of the BE is present when an abdominal CT with contrast shows leakage of contrast from the BE or when during relaparotomy dehiscence of the BE is apparent., During hospitalization|Postoperative complications: incidence and severity, Scored according to the modified Clavien-Dindo classification for surgical complications. Grade III and higher are considered clinically relevant in this study., During hospitalization|Number of days participants were hospitalized, The time period in days between hospital admission and discharge from the hospital., During hospitalization|Number of participants with in-hospital mortality, Any death during hospital admission., During hospitalization|30-day mortality, Any death occurring 30 days after pancreatoduodenectomy., 30 days|Quality of life (QoL) based on five dimensions, The EQ-5D-5L standardized questionnaire will be used., Change from baseline at 1 week, at 2 weeks, and 3 months|Participants perceived disease and treatment related quality of life, The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30/PAN26 standardized quality of life questionnaires will be used., Change from baseline at 2 weeks, 3 months, and 12 months|Quality of recovery, The QoR-15 standardized questionnaire will be used., Change from baseline at 1 week, at 2 weeks, and 3 months|Functional outcome at 12 months, Participants will be phoned to assess whether they have complaints of delayed gastric emptying ("afferent loop syndrome")., 12 months
Rationale/hypothesis: The addition of Braun enteroenterostomy (BE) reduces the incidence of delayed gastric emptying (DGE) resulting in lower morbidity and healthcare costs after pancreatoduodenectomy.

Objective: To assess the effectiveness of adding BE in reducing DGE in patients undergoing open pancreatoduodenectomy.

Study design: A multicenter, patient and observer blinded, registry-based randomized controlled trial.

Study population: Patients undergoing an open pancreatoduodenectomy for all indications.

Intervention: Braun enteroenterostomy (BE), or Braun anastomosis, in addition to usual care.

Usual care/comparison: Pancreatoduodenectomy with standard Child reconstruction.

Main endpoints:

1. Incidence of DGE Grade B/C (according to International Study Group of Pancreatic Surgery (ISGPS)
2. Incidence of postoperative pancreatic fistulas (POPF) Grade B/C (according to ISGPS), anastomotic leak, complications, hospital length of stay, functional outcome at 12 months, in-hospital mortality, 30-day mortality, healthcare costs.

Sample size: 256 in total, 128 per arm

Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group relatedness: Patients undergoing open pancreatoduodenectomy have an increased risk of postoperative complications such as DGE, POPF and anastomotic leak. The addition of BE, which is an anastomosis, could also result in a leak. However, this risk is diminishable compared to the risks of DGE and DGE related other complications like anastomotic leaks associated with standard pancreatoduodenectomy. Moreover, previous cohort studies involving BE do not describe an increased risk of adverse outcomes for BE.