Cytarabine and Daunorubicin Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This pilot clinical trial studies the side effects of cytarabine and daunorubicin hydrochloride and to see how well they work in treating patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine and daunorubicin hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading, and may be safer for the heart.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Change in incidence of cardiac toxicity, defined as reduction in LVEF of >= 10% compared to baseline LVEF and EF =< 50% on the follow-up scan, assessed using MRI, In addition to point estimates of these rates, 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Baseline up to 3 months after last dose of study drug|Incidence of other unexpected toxicities, measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, In addition to point estimates of these rates, 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 6 months after last dose of study drug|Proportion of patients who complete the infusion therapy, Will report these proportions with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 4 months|Proportion of patients with study-related deviations, Will report these proportions with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Change in incidence of cardiac toxicity, defined as reduction in LVEF of >= 10% compared to baseline LVEF and EF =< 50% on the follow-up scan, assessed using ECHO, In addition to point estimates of these rates, 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Baseline up to 3 months after last dose of study drug
Change in EF, assessed by MRI and ECHO, Will determine the correlation between ECHO and MRI assessments performed pre-chemotherapy. Will assess correlations between post-chemotherapy ECHO and MRI assessments. Will assess correlations between each of the time points. Paired t-tests will be performed to compare the actual values of each ECHO/MRI measurement to each other at each time point. Bland-Altman plots will be generated at baseline, follow-up and using the change in measure for each of the MRI/ECHO derived measures., Baseline up to 6 months after last dose of study drug|Change in incidence of cardiac toxicity, defined as reduction in LVEF of >= 10% compared to baseline LVEF and EF =< 50% on the follow-up scan, assessed using MRI and ECHO, Will determine the correlation between ECHO and MRI assessments performed pre-chemotherapy. Will assess correlations between post-chemotherapy ECHO and MRI assessments. Will assess correlations between each of the time points. Paired t-tests will be performed to compare the actual values of each ECHO/MRI measurement to each other at each time point. Bland-Altman plots will be generated at baseline, follow-up and using the change in measure for each of the MRI/ECHO derived measures., Baseline up to 6 months after last dose of study drug|Change in left ventricular end diastolic volume, assessed by MRI and ECHO, Will determine the correlation between ECHO and MRI assessments performed pre-chemotherapy. Will assess correlations between post-chemotherapy ECHO and MRI assessments. Will assess correlations between each of the time points. Paired t-tests will be performed to compare the actual values of each ECHO/MRI measurement to each other at each time point. Bland-Altman plots will be generated at baseline, follow-up and using the change in measure for each of the MRI/ECHO derived measures., Baseline up to 6 months after last dose of study drug|Change in left ventricular end systolic volume, assessed by MRI and ECHO, Will determine the correlation between ECHO and MRI assessments performed pre-chemotherapy. Will assess correlations between post-chemotherapy ECHO and MRI assessments. Will assess correlations between each of the time points. Paired t-tests will be performed to compare the actual values of each ECHO/MRI measurement to each other at each time point. Bland-Altman plots will be generated at baseline, follow-up and using the change in measure for each of the MRI/ECHO derived measures., Baseline up to 6 months after last dose of study drug|Change in myocardial strain, assessed by MRI and ECHO, Will determine the correlation between ECHO and MRI assessments performed pre-chemotherapy. Will assess correlations between post-chemotherapy ECHO and MRI assessments. Will assess correlations between each of the time points. Paired t-tests will be performed to compare the actual values of each ECHO/MRI measurement to each other at each time point. Bland-Altman plots will be generated at baseline, follow-up and using the change in measure for each of the MRI/ECHO derived measures., Baseline up to 6 months after last dose of study drug|Disease-free survival for those patients who achieve remission, From the date of CR until relapse from CR or death, assessed for up to 2 years|Induction death rate, Up to 28 days|Overall response rate, defined as CR + CRi, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety (at 3 months) and feasibility of administering daunorubicin hydrochloride (daunorubicin) as continuous infusion under the proposed treatment regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety (at 6 months) of administering daunorubicin as continuous infusion under the proposed treatment regimen.

II. To assess treatment outcomes (including complete remission \[CR\] and complete remission with incomplete recovery \[CRi\]) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) under the proposed treatment regimen.

III. To compare the concordance between magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and echocardiogram (ECHO) in identifying cardiac toxicity, ie a reduction in left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of \>= 10% and ejection fraction (EF) =\< 50% compared to baseline LVEF.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) continuously over 24 hours on days 1-7 and daunorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-3 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo bone marrow aspirate and biopsy on day 14. Patients with bone marrow cellularity \>= 10% and \> 5% leukemic blasts, may receive a second induction of cytarabine IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-5 and daunorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-2 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients achieving remission receive cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with core-binding factor (CBF) AML may receive 4 courses of therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for a minimum of 30 days, at 3 and 6 months, and then every 3 months thereafter.