Phase I Safety Study of the Drug MM-121 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors Resisting Ordinary Treatment
This study was a Phase 1 and pharmacologic open-labeled dose-escalation trial using a "3+3" design to determine maximum tolerated dose/recommended Phase 2 dose.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: MM-121
Objective Response Rate and Duration, To determine the number of patients reporting an objective response using RECIST v 1.1 where a Partial Response is defined as a \>20% decrease in tumor burden from baseline and a Complete Response is defined as complete disappearance of tumor burden from baseline. Duration of response is defined as the length of time in weeks from observation of response until progression.

NOTE: because no patients experienced an objective response as shown below, duration of response is not presented. No duration of response could be measured., Time from first dose to date of progression, with a median of 7.1 weeks|Determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose Dependent on Reports of Dose-limiting Toxicities, Using a 3+3 dose escalation model, the maximum tolerated dose was determined by assessing dose-limiting toxicities in each cohort from cohort 1-6. Cohort 1 began at 3.2 mg/kg IV QW and the dose escalated in separate cohorts from 6 mg/kg IV QW, 10 mg/kg IV QW, 15 mg/kg IV QW, 20 mg/kg IV QW, to the highest scheduled testing dose at 40 mg/kg one-time loading dose on cycle 1, week 1 followed by 20 mg/kg IV QW maintenance doses. If 3 patients were treated and passed the observation window, escalation to the next cohort was initiated. If a DLT was reported, 3-4 additional patients were enrolled and observed. If a DLT was observed in the expanded cohort, this dose was considered to be the maximum tolerated dose. The maximum tolerated dose was defined at the cohort in which two dose-limiting toxicities were observed, or as the highest target dose tested in the absence of DLTs. The determined MTD was considered the Recommended Phase 2 Dose and was used to open the expansion cohort., From date of first dose to 30 days after termination, the longest 47 weeks
To Describe the Dose-limiting Toxicity of MM-121 as a Monotherapy, To establish the safety of escalating doses of MM-121 administered as a monotherapy in order to determine the recommended phase 2 dose. Dose-escalation conducted using standard 3+3 model to determine maximum tolerated dose. Reports of Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) were assessed to determine the MTD to be used for the expansion cohort. DLTs were not measured in the Expansion Cohort., From date of first dose to 30 days after termination, the longest 47 weeks|To Determine the Pharmacokinetic and Immunogenicity Parameters of MM-121, Pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation was performed on plasma samples obtained weekly for the first cycle of the study and then on day 1 of each additional cycle to assess pre-treatment trough concentrations of MM-121. The maximum observed concentration (Cmax) is presented and was calculated usig Non-compartmental analysis (NCA). Serum levels of MM-121 were measured at a central lab using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Data is presented per dose level of MM-121 (3.2 mg/kg, 6 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 40/20 mg/kg).

Immunogenicity data is not available., At Cycle 1, Week 1 pre-treatment, at the end of the infusion, and 2, 4, 8, 24, 48 and 72 hours after starting the infusion; pre-dose collections on Cycle 1, Week 2 and Cycle 2, Week 1 for all patients|To Determine the Pharmacokinetic Parameters of MM-121, Pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation was performed on plasma samples obtained weekly for the first cycle of the study and then on day 1 of each additional cycle to assess pre-treatment trough concentrations of MM-121. The AUC is presented and was calculated usig Non-compartmental analysis (NCA). Serum levels of MM-121 were measured at a central lab using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Data is presented per dose level of MM-121 (3.2 mg/kg, 6 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 15 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg, 40/20 mg/kg)., At Cycle 1, Week 1 pre-treatment, at the end of the infusion, and 2, 4, 8, 24, 48 and 72 hours after starting the infusion; pre-dose collections on Cycle 1, Week 2 and Cycle 2, Week 1 for all patients
Successive cohorts of three or more patients were treated at escalating doses until a maximum tolerated dose/recommended phase 2 dose was identified. The study initially explored a dosing schedule every 7-days, which may have been modified to longer intervals under certain circumstances but did not expand to more than weekly. When the maximum tolerated dose/recommended Phase 2 dose was identified, an Expansion Cohort was enrolled at that dose to further characterize safety and to explore pharmacodynamic endpoints. There were 3 sites that participated.