Progressive Relaxation Exercise on Dyspnea, Pain and Sleep Quality
This study was planned to examine the effect of progressive relaxation exercises applied to lung cancer patients receiving chemotherapy on dyspnea, pain and sleep quality.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Progressive Relaxation Exercise
Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line. In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. GAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm, 1. week|Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line. In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. GAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm, 4. week|Visual Analog Scale, The patients were asked to mark their level of pain during relaxation or activities on a 10 cm vertical or horizontal line. In addition, there were forms which were numbered from 1-10 or from 1-100. The number 0 is found at the beginning of the line, and the number 10 is located at the end of the line. A value of 0 shows that there is no pain, and the value 10 expresses unendurable pain. GAS is a common scale in the assessment of pain level. A patient is asked to mark the perceived pain on this line, and the marked point is measured in cm, 8. week|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The PSQI is a valid and consistent survey comprising of 19 questions to assess quality and amount of sleep and the existence of a sleep disorder and its level in the previous month. The scale was adapted into the Turkish language by Agargün et al. (1996). The scale consists of seven components that assess patients subjective sleep quality, sleep delay, use of sleeping medication and disfunction in daily activities. Each item scores in the range 0-3 points and the total score of the seven components gives the total PSQI score. The total score has a value between 0-21 and a high total score demonstrates a poor quality of sleep. A total PSQI score which is ≤5 indicates "good sleep", and a score which is \>5 indicates "poor sleep", 1.week|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The PSQI is a valid and consistent survey comprising of 19 questions to assess quality and amount of sleep and the existence of a sleep disorder and its level in the previous month. The scale was adapted into the Turkish language by Agargün et al. (1996). The scale consists of seven components that assess patients subjective sleep quality, sleep delay, use of sleeping medication and disfunction in daily activities. Each item scores in the range 0-3 points and the total score of the seven components gives the total PSQI score. The total score has a value between 0-21 and a high total score demonstrates a poor quality of sleep. A total PSQI score which is ≤5 indicates "good sleep", and a score which is \>5 indicates "poor sleep", 4.week|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The PSQI is a valid and consistent survey comprising of 19 questions to assess quality and amount of sleep and the existence of a sleep disorder and its level in the previous month. The scale was adapted into the Turkish language by Agargün et al. (1996). The scale consists of seven components that assess patients subjective sleep quality, sleep delay, use of sleeping medication and disfunction in daily activities. Each item scores in the range 0-3 points and the total score of the seven components gives the total PSQI score. The total score has a value between 0-21 and a high total score demonstrates a poor quality of sleep. A total PSQI score which is ≤5 indicates "good sleep", and a score which is \>5 indicates "poor sleep", 8.week|Modified Medical Research Council (mMRC), It is a 5-item scale developed by English Medical Research Council to evaluate dyspnea. While applying Medical Research Council Dyspnea Scale, the patients are asked to indicate the level of activity that creates dyspnea in them. The patient chooses the most appropriate level that defines the respiratory problem by reading the options in the scale. The options are scored between 0 and 4; 0 means no dyspnea, 1 means mild dyspnea (respiratory distress when moving quickly and climbing slightly uphill); 2 means moderate dyspnea (walking slower than peers when walking straight on, stopping to breathe); 3 means severe dyspnea (stopping to breathe after walking about 100 m or for a few minutes) and 4 means very severe dyspnea (getting out of breath while doing daily chores at home, while putting on and taking off clothes and while going to toilet)., 1.week|Modified Medical Research Council (mMRC), It is a 5-item scale developed by English Medical Research Council to evaluate dyspnea. While applying Medical Research Council Dyspnea Scale, the patients are asked to indicate the level of activity that creates dyspnea in them. The patient chooses the most appropriate level that defines the respiratory problem by reading the options in the scale. The options are scored between 0 and 4; 0 means no dyspnea, 1 means mild dyspnea (respiratory distress when moving quickly and climbing slightly uphill); 2 means moderate dyspnea (walking slower than peers when walking straight on, stopping to breathe); 3 means severe dyspnea (stopping to breathe after walking about 100 m or for a few minutes) and 4 means very severe dyspnea (getting out of breath while doing daily chores at home, while putting on and taking off clothes and while going to toilet)., 4.week|Modified Medical Research Council (mMRC), It is a 5-item scale developed by English Medical Research Council to evaluate dyspnea. While applying Medical Research Council Dyspnea Scale, the patients are asked to indicate the level of activity that creates dyspnea in them. The patient chooses the most appropriate level that defines the respiratory problem by reading the options in the scale. The options are scored between 0 and 4; 0 means no dyspnea, 1 means mild dyspnea (respiratory distress when moving quickly and climbing slightly uphill); 2 means moderate dyspnea (walking slower than peers when walking straight on, stopping to breathe); 3 means severe dyspnea (stopping to breathe after walking about 100 m or for a few minutes) and 4 means very severe dyspnea (getting out of breath while doing daily chores at home, while putting on and taking off clothes and while going to toilet)., 8.week
It is thought that relaxation exercises reduce respiratory distress and improve sleep quality in lung cancer patients.