Bevacizumab, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Stage II or III Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial is studying how well giving bevacizumab together with lenalidomide and dexamethasone works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory stage II or stage III multiple myeloma. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab and lenalidomide may stop the growth of multiple myeloma by blocking blood flow to the cancer. Dexamethasone may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Giving bevacizumab together with lenalidomide and dexamethasone may kill more cancer cells.
Multiple Myeloma in Relapse|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: lenalidomide|DRUG: dexamethasone
Confirmed Anti-tumor Response Rate (Complete Response and Partial Response) to the Combination of Bevacizumab and Lenalidomide, Patient response to the treatment were determined by the definitions for complete response, partial response, marginal response, stable disease, and progressive disease outlined by IMBTR/ABMTR (Blade criteria). Responses were analyzed by descriptive statistics and summarized in tabular format (frequency tables). Furthermore, two-sided 95% confidence intervals for the proportions of subjects with a confirmed anti-tumor response were computed using the method proposed by Chang, which takes into account the multiplicity problem associated with the two-stage testing procedure. The objective response rate was estimated by using Whitehead's bias-adjustment approach., Up to 5 years|Progression Free Survival (Time to Progression), Patient response to the treatment were determined by the definitions for complete response, partial response, marginal response, stable disease, and progressive disease outlined by IMBTR/ABMTR (Blade criteria). Progression free survival was summarized using point estimates of the median time to progression and associated 95% confidence intervals. The data was presented graphically using Kaplan-Meier plots. Exploratory analysis, including multivariate Cox regression with demographic variables and markers of myeloma activity as covariates was performed., up to five years
Toxicity and Tolerability of the Bevacizumab and Lenalidomide Combination, Adverse events/toxicities were collected during regular clinical visits. Confidence intervals for the estimate of the true number of patients suffereing from grade 3 or 4 toxicities per common terminology criteria were calculated using the Wilson interval. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the proportions of patients with complications (grade 3 or higher toxicities) were constructed., Up to 5 years|Effect of Bev/Rev on Markers of Myeloma Activity in Myeloma Cells and Stromal Cells at Baseline, A Wilconxon signed-rank test conducted to determine if biomarker levels differed between baseline levels and those after three full cycles of treatment for all patients., Baseline|Local Cytokine Milieu Using Tissue Micro Arrays of Bone Marrow Biopsy Specimens, Up to 5 years|Effect of Bev/Rev on Markers of Myeloma Activity in Myeloma Cells and Stromal Cells at 3 Months Post-baseline, A Wilconxon signed-rank test conducted to determine if biomarker levels differed between baseline levels and those after three full cycles of treatment for all patients., Up to Course 4 Day 1 (3 Months Post-baseline)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the overall response rate (complete response and partial response) in patients with relapsed or refractory stage II or III multiple myeloma treated with bevacizumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine time to progression in these patients. II. Determine the toxicity and tolerability of this regimen. III. Determine the effect of bevacizumab and lenalidomide on markers of myeloma activity in myeloma cells and stromal cells, including interleukin-6, macrophage inflammatory protein-1α, vascular endothelial growth factor, and STAT3.

IV. Assess local cytokine milieu using tissue microarrays of bone marrow biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label study.

Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15, oral lenalidomide on days 1-21, and oral dexamethasone on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood samples are collected at baseline and before courses 2 and 4. Blood samples are examined for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and VEGF receptor (VEGFR) polymorphisms by pyrosequencing and VEGF, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, interleukin-6, and macrophage inflammatory protein 1 by immunoenzyme techniques. Relationships between plasma cell myeloma and stroma and the effect of study treatment on these relationships are examined in tissue sections of bone marrow before and after treatment utilizing microvessel density measurements, VEGF staining, and STAT3 staining (by immunohistochemistry and fluorescent in situ hybridization \[FISH\]).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.