Oxaliplatin, Ifosfamide and Etoposide in Treating Young Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors or Lymphoma
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of oxaliplatin and etoposide in treating young patients with recurrent or refractory solid tumors or lymphomas. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Oxaliplatin may also help etoposide work better by making cancer cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving oxaliplatin together with etoposide may kill more cancer cells.
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma|B-cell Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Childhood Burkitt Lymphoma|Childhood Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Childhood Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Childhood Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Childhood Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-cell Lymphoma|Hepatosplenic T-cell Lymphoma|Intraocular Lymphoma|Noncutaneous Extranodal Lymphoma|Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Grade III Lymphomatoid Granulomatosis|Recurrent Childhood Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Small Noncleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent/Refractory Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hairy Cell Leukemia|Small Intestine Lymphoma|T-cell Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|T-cell Large Granular Lymphocyte Leukemia|Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: etoposide
MTD of the combination of oxaliplatin and etoposide assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, 21 days|MTD of the addition of ifosfamide to the combination of oxaliplatin and etoposide assessed by CTCAE version 3.0, 21 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of oxaliplatin and etoposide in pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory solid tumors or lymphoma.

II. Determine the dose-limiting toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of this regimen in these patients. II. Correlate the extent of oxaliplatin and etoposide exposure with toxic effects and therapeutic effects of this regimen in these patients.

III. Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oxaliplatin and etoposide until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.