A Phase II Study of Eribulin and Pembrolizumab in Soft Tissue Sarcomas
This research study is studying a combination of drugs (chemotherapy + Immunotherapy) as a possible treatment for liposarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, or undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma that has spread and has not responded to standard treatment.
Sarcoma|Liposarcoma|Leiomyosarcoma|Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma
DRUG: Eribulin|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Rate of Progression Free Survival, For the primary endpoint of progression-free survival at 12 weeks with a null hypothesis of 30% and an alternative hypothesis of 60%, at least 9 patients absent of disease progression out of 19 patients will need to be observed to accept the treatment. The overall power for progression-free survival rare at 12 weeks is 91%. The overall type I error, the chance of incorrectly rejecting the null hypothesis is 10%., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 12 weeks
Overall Survival, Time from start of treatment to time of death., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, Objection response rate is the rate of complete response and partial response per RECIST 1.1., Assessed at 12 weeks|Clinical Benefit Response Rate per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, Clinical benefit rare is the rate of complete response and partial response and stable disease per RECIST 1.1., Assessed at 12 weeks|Incidence of toxicity, grade using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Among the 19 patients in each arm, there is a least a 86% probability of observing one or more toxicities with a true rate as low as 10%. With 19 treated patients in each arm, the maximum width of a 90% two-sided confidence interval for any estimated adverse event proportion is +/- 20%., Up to 2 Years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug, or in the case of this study, combination of drugs, to learn whether the combination of drugs works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the combination of drugs is being studied.

The primary purpose of this research study is to test the safety and effectiveness of eribulin and pembrolizumab in combination for controlling this cancer

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved eribulin for the treatment of liposarcoma, based on a phase III study that compared eribulin and dacarbazine in the treatment of liposarcoma and leiomyosarcoma. The FDA has not approved pembrolizumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses. A phase II study showed rare responses of liposarcoma and undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma to treatment with pembrolizumab. While eribulin in combination with pembrolizumab has not previously been tested in the treatment of liposarcoma, leiomyosarcoma, or undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma, other research studies and laboratory experiments and information from those studies suggest that the combination of these drugs may help to stop cancer cells from growing. Chemotherapy treatment with eribulin may increase the response to immunotherapy with pembrolizumab