Neoadjuvant Chemohormonal Therapy Followed by Salvage Surgery for High Risk PSA
The aim of this study is to test whether adding chemotherapy/cabazitaxel and hormonal/androgen deprivation therapy before surgical removal of your prostate would improve the outcome of salvage surgery for locally recurrent prostate cancer after the initial primary radiation therapy.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Androgen Ablation|DRUG: Cabazitaxel|DRUG: Salvage Therapy|DRUG: Neoadjuvant Treatment - Hormonal Therapy|DRUG: Neoadjuvant Treatment - Cabazitaxel
Surgical Margin Negative Rate (SM Rate), Post surgery percentage of participants with negative surgical margin. To determine the surgical margin negative rate in patients who have undergone chemohormonal therapy followed by surgery for biopsy proven androgen-dependent high risk locally recurrent prostate cancer following primary radiation therapy. Margin: The edge or border of the tissue removed in cancer surgery. The margin is described as negative or clean when the pathologist finds no cancer cells at the edge of the tissue, suggesting that all of the cancer has been removed. The margin is described as positive or involved when the pathologist finds cancer cells at the edge of the tissue, suggesting that all of the cancer has not been removed., One Year
Incidence of PSA Progression Free Survival (PFS), Percentage of participants with stable (has not increased) or undetectable PSA post surgery. To assess Prostate-specific antigen(PSA)-progression free survival and prostate cancer specific survival for patients treated by chemohormonal therapy followed by salvage surgery for biopsy proven androgen-dependent high-risk locally recurrent prostate cancer following radiation therapy., Four Months|Incidence of Complete Response (CR), Percentage of participants with CR post surgery. To evaluate the pathological complete response rate to androgen ablation plus Cabazitaxel in patients with locally recurrent prostate cancer following radiation therapy. Pathological Complete Response (pCR): Participants with no residual cancer in the local resection specimen and pelvic lymph nodes will be considered pCR., One Year|Incidence of Perioperative and Postoperative Morbidity, Number of events. To access the perioperative and postoperative morbidity with salvage surgery after neoadjuvant hormonal ablation and Cabazitaxel., One Year|Incidence of Detecting Circulating Tumor Cells (CTC), To determine the feasibility of detecting circulating tumor cells in this patient population. CTC results per patient in milliliters., One Year
In this study, all participants will receive cabazitaxel chemotherapy, which is approved as a second line chemotherapy for treating metastatic prostate cancer. Standard hormone or androgen ablation therapy will also be used as part of the chemohormonal therapy prior to the surgery.