Efficacy of Pelvic Autonomic Nerve Monitoring System (PAMS I) in Female Patients With Pelvic Tumors
Although nerve-sparing surgery has been introduced for female patients with the pelvic tumors, its success rate depends on operators. To achieve consistency of surgical procedure, It is necessary to adopt pelvic autonomic nerve monitoring technique.

The Aims of this study is

1. Development of pelvic autonomic nerve monitoring system (PAMS I) by using urodynamic system.
2. Evaluation of autonomic nerve sparing by intraoperative monitoring with PAMS I
3. Evaluating the efficacy of PAMS I by intraoperative neurophysiological monitoring (IOM)
Cervical Cancer|Uterine Cancer|Ovarian Cancer
DEVICE: PAMS I
Evaluating efficacy of PAMS I by comparison with IOM, Comparision pressure change on PAMS I with nerve conduction on IOM

i) PAMS I (+) \& IOM (+): nerve-sparing

ii) PAMS I (-) \& IOM (-): nerve damage

iii) PAMS I (+) \& IOM (-) or PAMS I (-) \& IOM (+): intermediate, Intraoperative
Evaluation of Quality of life., Voiding/Defecation/Sexual function, Preoperative, 3 months after surgery|Time period for recovering normal voiding function, Check residual urine. Keep CIC until residual urine \< 100cc, postoperative (up to 6 month)|Urodynamic test, Preoperative, 3 months after surgery|Anorectal manometry, Preoperative, 3 months after surgery
After surgery for pelvic tumor, most of patients complain voiding dysfunction, defecation dysfunction and sexual dysfunction which lead to decrease quality of life. Recently, nerve-sparing surgery has been introduced. But it is difficult to establish standard surgical procedure for nerve-sparing. And it is the concern that performing nerve sparing surgery may reduce radicality of surgery which influence prognosis.

Through pelvic autonomic nerve monitoring system (PAMS I), this trial is expected to raise the possibility of nerve-sparing with maintaining radicality of surgery.

Pressure sensor of PAMS I and needle prove of IOM are very thin and these instruments have been used clinically. Taking this into consideration, additional risk by nerve monitoring is considered to be minimal.