A Study of Idasanutlin With Cytarabine Versus Cytarabine Plus Placebo in Participants With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
This is a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study designed to compare overall survival in participants with relapsed or refractory AML treated with idasanutlin in combination with cytarabine versus participants treated with placebo and cytarabine. Participants will receive induction treatment with idasanutlin/placebo and cytarabine (Cycle 1). Responding participants may continue to receive a maximum of further two cycles of consolidation (Cycle 2 and Cycle 3). Complete remission (CR), CR with incomplete platelet count recovery (CRp), overall remission rate (ORR), event-free survival (EFS) and percentage of participants with an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) will also be compared between treatment arms. This study will include participants with and without TP53 wild type (TP53 WT) mutations.
Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute
DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Idasanutlin|OTHER: Placebo
Overall Survival in TP53 WT Population, P53 tumor protein Wild Type (TP53 WT) population's Overall Survival was compared in participants with relapsed or refractory (R/R) acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who had been randomized to idasanutlin in combination with cytarabine versus those who had been randomized to cytarabine and placebo.

The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of the study., From randomization to death from any cause (up to approximately 4.5 years)
Percentage of Participants in Complete Response (CR) at the End of Induction According to Hematologic Malignancy Response Assessment (HMRA) in TP53 WT Population, Rate of complete response at the end of induction in the TP53 WT population was compared in participants who had been randomized to idasanutlin in combination with cytarabine versus those who had been randomized to cytarabine and placebo.

The design followed a hierarchical statistical testing framework., At the end of induction (up to Day 56)|Event-Free Survival (EFS) According to HMRA in TP53 WT Population, Event Free Survival (EFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to whichever occurs first: treatment failure (failure to achieve CR, set as day of final response assessment), relapse from CR, or death from any cause. The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of the study.

The design followed a hierarchical statistical testing framework., From randomization up to treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause (up to approximately 4.5 years)|Percentage of Participants With Overall Remission (CR, CRp, and CRi) at the End of Induction According to HMRA in TP53 WT Population, Rate of overall remission (complete remission, complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery, complete remission with incomplete platelet count recovery) at the end of induction in the TP53 WT population was compared in participants who had been randomized to idasanutlin in combination with cytarabine versus those who had been randomized to cytarabine and placebo.

The design followed a hierarchical statistical testing framework., At the end of induction (up to Day 56)|Duration of Remission Following CR (DOR) in TP53 WT Population, DOR is defined for patients achieving complete remission and is the time from clinical remission until relapse or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. For patients with none of these events before time of analysis, DOR is censored at the date of the patient's last response assessment.

The Median upper limits were set to 999 because they were not reached and therefore it was Not Evaluable (NE) and the field is numeric only. The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of the study., From achieving CR until relapse or death from any cause (up to approximately 4.5 years)|Percentage of Participants Undergoing HSCT Following Complete Response (CR), in TP53 WT Population, Rate of complete response at the end of induction in mutation-defined subgroups (positive for mutation of FLT3, IDH1 and IDH2, respectively) of the TP53 WT population was compared in participants who had been randomized to idasanutlin in combination with cytarabine versus those who had been randomized to cytarabine and placebo. The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of the study., Baseline up to approximately 4.5 years|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) in Clinically Actionable Mutation-Defined Subpopulation (FLT3, IDH1 and IDH2) in TP53 WT Population, Rate of complete response at the end of induction in mutation-defined subgroups (positive for mutation of FLT3, IDH1 and IDH2, respectively) of the TP53 WT population was compared in participants who had been randomized to idasanutlin in combination with cytarabine versus those who had been randomized to cytarabine and placebo., At the end of induction (up to Day 56)|Overall Survival in Clinically Actionable Mutation-Defined Subpopulation (FLT3, IDH1 and IDH2) in TP53 WT Population, Overall survival in mutation-defined subgroups (positive for mutation of FLT3, IDH1 and IDH2 respectively) of the TP53 WT population was compared in participants who had been randomized to idasanutlin in combination with cytarabine versus those who had been randomized to cytarabine and placebo. The Median upper limits were set to 999 because they were not reached and therefore it was Not Evaluable (NE) and the field is numeric only. The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of the study., From randomization to death from any cause (up to approximately 4.5 years)|Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Adverse Event by Severity, According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 4.03 (NCI-CTCAE v4.03), Participants who experienced at least one Adverse Event by severity, According to National Cancer Institute common terminology criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.03 (NCI-CTCAE v4.03) have been reported. The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of the study., Baseline up to approximately 4.5 years|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Leading to Discontinuation, Participants with Adverse Events leading to discontinuation of the study have been reported. The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of the study., Baseline up to approximately 4.5 years|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Leading to Death up to Day 30, The number of participants with AE resulted by death within 30 days from dosing is reported, Up to Day 30|Number of Participants With Adverse Events Leading to Death up to Day 60, The number of participants with AE resulted by death within 60 days from dosing is reported, Up to Day 60|Number of Participants With Clinical Laboratory Abnormalities in Biochemistry Tests at the Greatest Severity, According to NCI-CTCAE v4.03, Laboratory parameters for blood biochemistry will be measured and compared with a standard reference range. Values outside the standard reference range are considered abnormalities. A laboratory test result will be reported as an adverse event if it meets any of the following criteria: is accompanied by clinical symptoms; results in a change in study treatment or a medical intervention; or is clinically significant in the investigator's judgment.

For each patient, baseline is the last observation prior to initiation of study drug. For each laboratory test, patients with at least 1 post-baseline assessment are included in the analysis. For each cell, the denominator is the number of patients with baseline NCI-CTCAE Grade 0-2 in the specified direction of abnormality, or Grade 1-4 in the opposite direction of abnormality., Up to Approximately 4.5 Years|Number of Participants With Clinical Laboratory Abnormalities in Hematology Tests at the Greatest Severity, According to NCI-CTCAE v4.03, Laboratory parameters for hematology will be measured and compared with a standard reference range. Values outside the standard reference range are considered abnormalities. A laboratory test result will be reported as an adverse event if it meets any of the following criteria: is accompanied by clinical symptoms; results in a change in study treatment or a medical intervention; or is clinically significant in the investigator's judgment.

For each patient, baseline is the last observation prior to initiation of study drug. For each laboratory test, patients with at least 1 post-baseline assessment are included in the analysis. For each cell, the denominator is the number of patients with baseline NCI-CTCAE Grade 0-2 in the specified direction of abnormality, or Grade 1-4 in the opposite direction of abnormality., Up to Approximately 4.5 Years|Change From Baseline in Body Temperature Over Time, Vital signs were measured prior to the infusion while the participant was in a seated position. The baseline value at visit and the change from baseline value at each timepoint are reported. The change from baseline value was calculated by subtracting the post-baseline value from the baseline value.

The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of study., Baseline; Cycles 1-3, Days 8, 15, 22, 28 (1 cycle is 28 days); and, if incomplete blood count recovery, Days 29-42 and Days 43-56, Cycles 2 -3 Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 28 and 29-56 (max delay between cycles is 56 days)|Change From Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure Over Time, Vital signs were measured prior to the infusion while the participant was in a seated position. The baseline value at visit and the change from baseline value at each timepoint are reported. The change from baseline value was calculated by subtracting the post-baseline value from the baseline value.

The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of study., Baseline; Cycles 1-3, Days 8, 15, 22, 28 (1 cycle is 28 days); and, if incomplete blood count recovery, Days 29-42 and Days 43-56, Cycles 2 -3 Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 28 and 29-56 (max delay between cycles is 56 days)|Change From Baseline in Diastolic Blood Pressure Over Time, Vital signs were measured prior to the infusion while the participant was in a seated position. The baseline value at visit and the change from baseline value at each timepoint are reported. The change from baseline value was calculated by subtracting the post-baseline value from the baseline value.

The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of study., Baseline; Cycles 1-3, Days 8, 15, 22, 28 (1 cycle is 28 days); and, if incomplete blood count recovery, Days 29-42 and Days 43-56, Cycles 2 -3 Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 28 and 29-56 (max delay between cycles is 56 days)|Change From Baseline in Pulse Rate Over Time, Vital signs were measured prior to the infusion while the participant was in a seated position. The baseline value at visit and the change from baseline value at each timepoint are reported. The change from baseline value was calculated by subtracting the post-baseline value from the baseline value.

The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of study., Baseline; Cycles 1-3, Days 8, 15, 22, 28 (1 cycle is 28 days); and, if incomplete blood count recovery, Days 29-42 and Days 43-56, Cycles 2 -3 Days 1, 8, 15, 22, 28 and 29-56 (max delay between cycles is 56 days)|Change From Baseline in Respiratory Rate Over Time, Vital signs were measured prior to the infusion while the participant was in a seated position. The baseline value at visit and the change from baseline value at each timepoint are reported. The change from baseline value was calculated by subtracting the post-baseline value from the baseline value.

The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of study., Up to Approximately 4.5 Years|Change From Baseline in Heart Rate, as Measured by Electrocardiogram, Single 12-lead ECGs was obtained using an ECG machine that automatically calculates the heart rate and measures PR, QRS, QT, and QTc intervals. The baseline value at visit and the change from baseline value at each timepoint are reported. The change from baseline value was calculated by subtracting the post-baseline value from the baseline value.

The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of study., Baseline; Cycles 1-3 Day 1 (2 hrs pre-dose, post-Cytarabine and 6 hrs post-Idasanutlin/Placebo ); Cycle 1-3 Day 2; Cycle 1 Day 5 (within 2 hrs Idanasanutlin/Placebo, post-Cytarabine and 6 hrs post-Idasanutlin/Placebo), Study Drug Completion|Change From Baseline in Electrocardiogram Parameters: PQ, PR, RR, QRS, QT and QTcF Intervals, Single 12-lead ECGs was obtained using an ECG machine that automatically calculates the heart rate and measures PR, QRS, QT, and QTc intervals. The baseline value at visit and the change from baseline value at each timepoint are reported. The change from baseline value was calculated by subtracting the post-baseline value from the baseline value.

The study was terminated because of futility, therefore did not reach the planned end of study., Baseline, Days 1, 2, and 5 of Cycle 1, Days 1, 2 of Cycles 2 and 3 (1 cycle is 28 days), Treatment Discontinuation Visit (28 days after last dose of study drug)|Total Duration of Study Treatment, Participants were planned to be treated up to 3 Cycles., Up to 3 cycles (1 cycle is 28 days)|Number of Treatment Cycles Started, Participants who started the study treatment cycles are reported., Up to 3 cycles (1 cycle is 28 days)|Cumulative Dose of Idasanutlin and Cytarabine, The cumulative doses of idasanutlin and cytaradine are reported., Up to 3 cycles (1 cycle is 28 days)|Apparent Clearance (CL/F) of Idasanutlin, Apparent Clearance (CL/F) of Idasanutlin was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive.The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population. The planned CL/F did not derive for the result data and was not reported., Cycle 1: Predose (0 hour [Hr]), end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr postdose on Days 1, 5; Predose (0 Hr) on Day 2; at Days 8, 10; Cycle 2, 3: predose (0 Hr) on Days 2, 5 (predose/postdose: relative to idasanutlin morning dose; cycle length= 28 days)|Apparent Volume of Distribution (Vd/F) of Idasanutlin, Apparent Volume of Distribution (Vd/F) of Idasanutlin was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive., Cycle 1: Predose (0 Hr), end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr postdose on Days 1, 5; Predose (0 Hr) on Day 2; at Days 8, 10; Cycle 2, 3: predose (0 Hr) on Days 2, 5 (predose/postdose: relative to idasanutlin morning dose; cycle length= 28 days)|Maximum Concentration Observed (Cmax) of Idasanutlin, Maximum Concentration Observed (Cmax) of Idasanutlin was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive., Cycle 1: Predose (0 Hr), end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr postdose on Days 1, 5; Predose (0 Hr) on Day 2; at Days 8, 10; Cycle 2, 3: predose (0 Hr) on Days 2, 5 (predose/postdose: relative to idasanutlin morning dose; cycle length= 28 days)|Steady-State Concentration (Ctrough) of Idasanutlin, Steady-State Concentration (Ctrough) of Idasanutlin was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive., Cycle 1: Predose (0 Hr), end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr postdose on Days 1, 5; Predose (0 Hr) on Day 2; at Days 8, 10; Cycle 2, 3: predose (0 Hr) on Days 2, 5 (predose/postdose: relative to idasanutlin morning dose; cycle length= 28 days)|Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve (AUC) During One Dosing Interval (AUCtau) of Idasanutlin, Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve (AUC) During One Dosing Interval (AUCtau) of Idasanutlin was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive., Cycle 1: Predose (0 Hr), end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr postdose on Days 1, 5; Predose (0 Hr) on Day 2; at Days 8, 10; Cycle 2, 3: predose (0 Hr) on Days 2, 5 (predose/postdose: relative to idasanutlin morning dose; cycle length= 28 days)|AUC From Time Zero to 24 Hours Post Dose (AUC0-24) of Idasanutlin, AUC from Time Zero to 24 Hours Post Dose (AUC0-24) of Idasanutlin was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive., Cycle 1: Predose (0 Hr), end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr postdose on Days 1, 5; Predose (0 Hr) on Day 2; at Days 8, 10; Cycle 2, 3: predose (0 Hr) on Days 2, 5 (predose/postdose: relative to idasanutlin morning dose; cycle length= 28 days)|Half-Life (t 1/2) of Idasanutlin, Half-Life (t 1/2) of Idasanutlin was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive., Cycle 1: Predose (0 Hr), end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr postdose on Days 1, 5; Predose (0 Hr) on Day 2; at Days 8, 10; Cycle 2, 3: predose (0 Hr) on Days 2, 5 (predose/postdose: relative to idasanutlin morning dose; cycle length= 28 days)|Total Clearance (CL) of Cytarabine, The Total Clearance (CL) of Cytarabine was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive., Cycle 1: Within 2 Hr pre-cytarabine dose, end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr post idasanutlin morning dose on Days 1, 5; Within 2 Hr pre-cytarabine dose on Day 2; Cycle 2, 3: Within 2 Hr pre-cytarabine dose on Day 2 (Cycle length= 28 days)|Volume of Distribution (Vd) of Cytarabine, The Volume of Distribution (Vd) of Cytarabine was planned as part of the PK analyses. The Independent Data Monitoring Committee recommended stopping the study for futility based on a lack of OS benefit due to Hazard Ratio (HR) being greater than 1. The benefit-risk profile of idasanutlin combined with 1g/m2 cytarabine in fit R/R AML was not positive, as the observed marginal benefit does not outweigh the risks of idasanutlin in the relapsed or refractory AML population.

Therefore the study was prematurely terminated by the sponsor's decision and the result data did not derive., Cycle 1: Within 2 Hr pre-cytarabine dose, end of 1-3 Hr cytarabine infusion, 6 Hr post idasanutlin morning dose on Days 1, 5; Within 2 Hr pre-cytarabine dose on Day 2; Cycle 2, 3: Within 2 Hr pre-cytarabine dose on Day 2 (Cycle length= 28 days)|Change From Baseline in European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score, The compliance rate (defined as the number of patients who completed as least 1 question on the measure) at baseline was 56% and 61% for the Idasanutlin arm and the placebo arm, respectively. This compliance rate remained the same post-baseline in both arms. Due to the low compliance rates in both arms during the entire treatment period, the planned analyses were not performed., Cycle 1 Day 1 (Baseline), Days 8, 15, 28 of Cycle 1, Days 1, 8, 15, 28 of Cycles 2, 3, 28 days after last dose (last dose on Cycle 3 Day 5), thereafter every 3 months until relapse (maximum up to 3.5 years)|Change From Baseline in EuroQol 5 Dimension 5-Level (EQ-5D-5L) Questionnaire Score, The compliance rate (defined as the number of patients who completed as least 1 question on the measure) at baseline was 56% and 61% for the Idasanutlin arm and the placebo arm, respectively. Compliance remained the same post-baseline in both arms Due to the low compliance rates in both arms during the entire treatment period, the planned analyses were not performed., Cycle 1 Day 1 (Baseline), Days 8, 15, 28 of Cycle 1, Days 1, 8, 15, 28 of Cycles 2, 3, 28 days after last dose (last dose on Cycle 3 Day 5), thereafter every 3 months until relapse (maximum up to 3.5 years)
This is a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study designed to compare overall survival in participants with relapsed or refractory AML treated with idasanutlin in combination with cytarabine versus participants treated with placebo and cytarabine. Participants will receive induction treatment with idasanutlin/placebo and cytarabine (Cycle 1). Responding participants may continue to receive a maximum of further two cycles of consolidation (Cycle 2 and Cycle 3). Complete remission (CR), CR with incomplete platelet count recovery (CRp), overall remission rate (ORR), event-free survival (EFS) and percentage of participants with an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) will also be compared between treatment arms. This study will include participants with and without TP53 wild type (TP53 WT) mutations.