R-ICE and Lenalidomide in Treating Patients With First-Relapse/Primary Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with rituximab-ifosfamide-carboplatin-etoposide (R-ICE) and to see how well they work in treating patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma that has returned after a period of improvement (relapsed) and that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as rituximab, ifosfamide, carboplatin, etoposide, and lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving lenalidomide with R-ICE may be a better treatment for patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Recurrent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Transformed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ifosfamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Overall Response Rate (Phase II), Will be defined as a complete metabolic response or partial metabolic response. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., At 42 days (after 2 courses) of treatment
Proportion of Patients Proceeding to Stem Cell Transplant, Estimated by the number of patients who proceed to transplant divided by

\> the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., At 42 days of treatment|Complete Metabolic Response Rate, Estimated by the number of patients with an objective status of complete metabolic response divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true complete metabolic response rate will be calculated., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, The percentage of participants alive will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Histologic Subtype (Germinal Center B-cell-like Versus Activated B-cell-like Versus Unclassified Subtype), Evaluated by 2 methods: Hans algorithm by immunohistochemistry and gene expression profiling using nanostring technology. For each method, the relationship between overall response (responder versus non-responder) complete response rate and subtype will be evaluated using Chi-square tests (or Fisher's exact test if the data in the contingency table is sparse)., Up to 5 years|Standardized Uptake Value, Evaluated by calculating the percentage (%) standardized uptake value noted on interim positron emission tomography/computed tomography scan and correlated with the overall response (responder versus non-responder) by using a two sample t-test., Up to 5 years|Anatomic Size Reduction, Evaluated by calculating the percentage (%) anatomic size reduction noted on interim positron emission tomography/computed tomography scan and correlated with the overall response (responder versus non-responder) by using a two sample t-test., Up to 5 years|Minimum Residual Disease Detection in Blood, The correlation of minimal residual disease detection (positive versus negative) with overall response will be evaluated using Chi-square tests (or Fisher's exact test if the data in the contingency table is sparse)., Up to 5 years|Minimum Residual Disease Blood Level, The correlation of minimal residual disease quantification (responder versus non-responder) with overall response will be evaluated using two sample t-tests., Up to 5 years|Serum Sample Collected and Stored for Future and Ongoing Research, Some of the initial work for which this would be utilized would include but not limited to studying the serum free light chains, serum free deoxyribonucleic acid and the minimal residual disease. These measures will be summarized descriptively using medians and ranges (continuous measures) or frequencies (categorical measures)., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the addition of lenalidomide to the R-ICE chemoimmunotherapy regimen (lenalidomide-rituximab-ifosfamide-carboplatin-etoposide \[R2ICE\]) for the treatment of primary-refractory/first-relapse B-cell lymphoma. (Phase I) II. To determine if the addition of lenalidomide (based on dose determination from phase I) to the R-ICE chemoimmunotherapy regimen (R2-ICE) would lead to clinically meaningful improvement in the overall response rates (ORR) for patients with first-relapse/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of the addition of lenalidomide to RICE on the number (percentage) of patients proceeding to stem cell transplant (SCT).

II. To evaluate the effect of the addition of lenalidomide to RICE on other surrogate outcome measures including complete metabolic response (CMR) rate and overall survival.

III. To describe the toxicities associated with the addition of lenalidomide to the R-ICE chemoimmunotherapy regimen (R2ICE).

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate ORR based on germinal center B-cell-like (GCB) versus non-GCB subtypes.

II. To evaluate ORR based on percent standardized uptake value (SUV) reduction and percent anatomic size reduction on interim positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scans.

III. To evaluate ORR based on minimal residual disease (MRD) detection (positive versus \[vs.\] negative) and quantification after 2 cycles of treatment.

IV. Future tissue and blood based studies.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-14, rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1, ifosfamide IV over 24 hours on day 2, carboplatin IV over 1-2 hours on day 2, and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving CMR, partial metabolic response (PMR), or no metabolic response (NMR) may receive 2 more cycles per physician discretion. After completion of 2 cycles of R2ICE treatment, patients achieving objective status of CMR, PMR or NMR may proceed to SCT during the event monitoring phase.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years and then every 6 months for 2 years.