Establishing Prospective Mediastinal Tumor Database of PUMCH
This study aims to prospectively document the population characteristics, imaging findings, pathological features, prognostic factors, etc., of patients with mediastinal tumors. Clinical information will be structured and processed, and it is recommended to establish a mediastinal tumors database at Peking Union Medical College Hospital. The goal is to provide support for the quality of diagnosis and treatment, clinical protocols, and medical decision-making related to mediastinal tumors.
Thymic Epithelial Tumor|Teratoma|Thymic Cyst|Retrosternal Goitre|Germ Cell Tumor|Lymphoma|Schwannoma
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival of patients with mediastinal tumors, From date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 20 years
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival of patients with mediastinal tumors, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 20 years
Mediastinal tumors encompass a variety of tumors originating in the mediastinum, comprising both benign and malignant tumors, those invading mediastinal structures during disease progression, or metastases from malignant tumors originating elsewhere in the body. Based on their relationship with the pericardium, mediastinal tumors can be categorized into anterior mediastinal tumors, commonly including thymomas, retrosternal goiters, teratomas, and germ cell tumors; middle mediastinal tumors, which often include bronchogenic cysts, lymphomas, malignant lymphomas, pericardial cysts, lipomas, and esophageal cysts; and posterior mediastinal tumors, where neurogenic tumors and neurofibromas are prevalent. Mediastinal tumors are relatively rare compared to other solid tumors and exhibit complex pathological types. Consequently, conducting prospective randomized controlled clinical trials is challenging, and the significant treatment disparities among different types of mediastinal tumors affect patient survival outcomes. Clinicians often have limited understanding of some complex mediastinal tumors due to the lack of quality and reliable diagnostic and treatment standards or survival data. Therefore, establishing a specialized database for mediastinal tumor research holds great practical significance for the effective development of clinical practice.

Tumor registration databases in North America and Europe have been established earlier, with wide coverage and relatively mature development. For example, the National Cancer Database (NCDB) in the United States is the largest tumor registration database globally, with over 1500 hospitals reporting tumor data to it, covering approximately 70% of newly diagnosed cancer cases. The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database is a public health database based on tumor populations in some states and counties in the United States (17 regional registration centers). It has been registering data since 1973, covering tumor monitoring, epidemiology, and prognosis information. Both databases have high coverage and reasonable registration and verification systems, providing a wealth of high-level evidence for the formulation of tumor prevention and control strategies.

In China, the development in this field started relatively late. To integrate resources, deeply explore data information, and further improve the diagnosis and treatment level and patient management level of mediastinal tumors in China, it is necessary to establish a scientifically standardized specialized mediastinal tumor database.