Cyclophosphamide and Docetaxel Every 3 Weeks as Neoadjuvant Therapy in Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
The standard therapy for patients who have locally advanced breast cancer is to receive chemotherapy before surgical removal of tumor. This is called neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC). Chemotherapy is used to shrink the tumor before surgery, which sometimes may allow for a smaller portion of the breast to be removed. Receiving chemotherapy before surgery may sometimes also allow for smaller portions of the breast to be removed. Getting chemotherapy prior to surgery may also control any hidden metastatic disease and thereby decrease the risk of cancer relapse. Pre-surgery chemotherapy is a standard management approach for locally advanced breast cancer.

Different combinations of drugs can be used as part of the pre-surgery chemotherapy. The purpose of this study is to determine if using a chemotherapy regimen of TC is effective way to manage locally advanced breast cancer (Stage IIA- IIIB) when the TC is given before surgery. The investigators also hope this study will help us to better understand how the tumor tissue is affected by this combination of chemotherapy drugs.

The TC drug combination is FDA approved for use in treating breast cancer, and it has been shown to be equally effective as other commonly used chemotherapy regimens when used after surgery; but, the TC drug combination has not yet been studied in conjunction with NAC for use before surgery. The investigators will be studying the combination of TC used before surgery as a means of possibly shrinking the tumor.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide and docetaxel
Complete Response Rate, The primary outcome measure for this study is the complete response rate for evaluable participants on neoadjuvant chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and docetaxel. A clinical complete response (cCR) is defined as resolution of all palpable masses., 3-4 weeks post-surgery
Change in mean Tiam1 expression levels before and after therapy, Descriptive statistic plots and confidence intervals will summarize the observed changes in Tiam1 expression levels before and after therapy. Although primarily descriptive, changes in mean levels pre and post therapy will be tested using the paired t-test or Wilcoxon Signed Ranks Test. Other secondary exploratory analyses will investigate associations between the observed changes in Tiam1 expression and the observed clinical response rate. Regression models will be used to investigate these associations., Up to 22 weeks
This is a single-arm, open-label phase II study of cyclophosphamide and docetaxel/taxotere (TC) every 3 weeks in Her2 (-) subjects with locally advanced breast cancer. It is designed to assess (1) the clinical and pathologic response rates to this regimen, as well as its tolerability in this subject population, and (2) the expression of Tiam1 in tumor-associated fibroblasts pre and post treatment.