rTMS as a Treatment of Visceral Pain Secondary to Malignancy
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of rTMS over primary motor cortex in patients suffering from malignant visceral pain. Thirty four patients were included in the study. They are divided randomly into 2 groups using closed envelop as real rTMS group and sham group. Real rTMS over the hand area of motor cortex (20 Hz, 10 trains with inter train interval 30 second with total pulses 2000, intensity 80% of motor threshold) every day for ten consecutive days (5 days/week) and the coil elevated and angled away from the head as sham stimulation. Patients were evaluated by verbal descriptor scale (VDS), visual analog scale (VAS), and Hamilton rating scale for depression (HAM-D) at the baseline, after 1st, 5th, 10th session, 15 day and 1 month after end of sessions. Serum human dynorphin (Dyn) level was measured at baseline, 5th and 10th session.
Malignancy
PROCEDURE: Real rTMS(20 Hz, 10 trains, inter train interval 30 sc with total pulses 2000, intensity 80% of motor threshold) daily for 10 consecutive days (5 days/week)|PROCEDURE: Sham rTMS (same parameters but with coil elevated and angled away from the head) every day for 10 consecutive days (5 days/week).
Visceral pain improvement, Reduction of visceral pain in patients with malignancy measured by VAS, VDS., one month
Reduction of depression manifestation, Measurement of depression by using (HAM-D) scale., one month
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of rTMS over primary motor cortex in patients suffering from malignant visceral pain. Thirty four patients were included in the study. They are divided randomly into 2 groups using closed envelop as real rTMS group and sham group. Real rTMS over the hand area of motor cortex (20 Hz, 10 trains with inter train interval 30 second with total pulses 2000, intensity 80% of motor threshold) every day for ten consecutive days (5 days/week) and the coil elevated and angled away from the head as sham stimulation. Patients were evaluated by verbal descriptor scale (VDS), visual analog scale (VAS), and Hamilton rating scale for depression (HAM-D) at the baseline, after 1st, 5th, 10th session, 15 day and 1 month after end of sessions. Serum human dynorphin (Dyn) level was measured at baseline, 5th and 10th session.