Faith in Action! A Church-Based Navigation Model to Increase Breast Cancer Screening in Korean Women
The purpose of this research is to develop a culturally adapted "Faith in Action!" curriculum to train lay health navigators to provide breast cancer screening navigation to Korean American women within faith-based settings and evaluate whether the culturally adapted "Faith in Action!" curriculum increases adherence to breast cancer screening guidelines among Korean American women within faith-based settings in Los Angeles, California. The primary research procedures include trainings and key informant interviews with lay health navigators in faith-based settings followed by a cluster randomized trial to evaluate the intervention.
Breast Cancer Female|Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice|Cancer Screening|Health Disparities
BEHAVIORAL: Faith in Action! Church-based Navigation Model|OTHER: Control
Screening adherence, Percent change in adherence to breast cancer screening guidelines within 6 months from end of program, up to 6 months from end of program
Breast Cancer Screening Beliefs (Knowledge, Perception, and perceived risk), Assessed in validated, Breast Cancer Screening Beliefs Questionnaire (Kwok et al) including Likert-type questions (13 items and 3 sub scales, items range 1-5, strongly agree to strongly disagree), up to 6 months|Participant knowledge, attitudes, and beliefs towards screening (Qualitative), Assessed in qualitative interviews, up to 6 months|Change in Knowledge of Breast Cancer Screening, Knowledge of breast cancer screening based on pre-post knowledge assessments adapted Cancer 101 assessments (3 knowledge assessments (5 items each), response categories: Agree, Disagree, or Unsure)., up to 6 months
Change in NIH PROMIS Global Health, Change in continuous NIH PROMIS converted T-Scores (mean 50, SD:10) at 6 months. Questionnaire includes physical and mental health domains (4 items total, likert 5-point scale, converted to continuous T scores), Up to 6 months
A parallel cluster randomized trial (CRT) with staggered roll-out will be conducted to evaluate the efficacy of the "Faith in Action!" intervention on breast cancer screening rates among Korean American women. This will involve two blocks of 8 churches each (total 16 churches) randomized to either the intervention or waitlist control.

A train the trainer approach will be used to educate and certify lay health navigators identified by targeted Korean church leaders from selected churches. The trained health navigators will be deployed back to the churches and community settings with tools and resources to deliver cancer education and increase motivation to participate in breast cancer screening through proven approaches such as one-on-one education, small media and workshops.

The research objectives are to:

1. Develop a culturally adapted "Faith in Action!" curriculum to train lay health navigators to provide breast cancer screening navigation to Korean American women within faith-based settings.
2. Evaluate whether the culturally adapted "Faith in Action!" curriculum increases adherence to breast cancer screening guidelines among Korean American women within faith-based settings.

It is hypothesized that the implementation of this culturally adapted cancer screening training curriculum for lay health navigators, built upon the Korean communities' frequent engagement with "expert" schools and deployed among existing networks in the faith-based Korean community, will increase adherence to breast cancer screening guidelines among underserved Korean American women.