Study of the Safety and Activity of Lenvatinib (E7080) in Subjects With KIF5B-RET-Positive Adenocarcinoma of the Lung
This is a Phase 2, open-label, safety and activity study of lenvatinib in subjects with KIF5B-RET-positive adenocarcinoma of the lung and other confirmed RET translocations. At least 20 subjects with KIF5B-RET and other RET translocations will be treated and will receive lenvatinib at a starting dose of 24 mg orally, once per day. The study will consist of 3 phases: The Pretreatment Phase, The Treatment Phase and the Extension Phase. The Pretreatment Phase will include screening procedures and eligibility assessments. The Pretreatment Phase consists of a Screen 1, Screen 2 and Baseline Period. The Treatment Phase will begin when the subject has met all eligibility criteria on Day 1 of the first Treatment Cycle. The Treatment Phase contains the Treatment and Follow-up Periods. The Extension Phase will begin for subjects who received treatment in the study (either in the Treatment Period or Follow-up Period) at the time of database cutoff.
KIF5B-RET-Positive Adenocarcinoma of the Lung
DRUG: Lenvatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), based on the investigator assessment of radiologic response according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. No independent review of tumor assessments was performed. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) had to be reduced in short axis to less than (\<) 10 millimeter (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From first dose date until PD, development of unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, participant's choice to stop study treatment (up to approximately 2 years 10 months)
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the first dose to the date of first documentation of PD, or date of death, whichever occurred first. Tumor response data used to analyze PFS was obtained from the investigator's assessment of the imaging scans using RECIST 1.1. No independent review of tumor assessments were performed. PFS was calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimate and presented with 2-sided 95% Cl based on the Greenwood formula. PD was defined as at least 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the sum of diameters of target lesions., From first dose date until PD or death (up to approximately 2 years 10 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause. OS was calculated using Kaplan-Meier estimate and presented with 2-sided 95% Cl based on the Greenwood formula., From first dose date until date of death from any cause (approximately up to 2 years 10 months)|Plasma Concentrations of Lenvatinib, Cycle 1 Day 1: 0.5-4 hours, 6-10 hours postdose; Cycle 1 Day 15: predose, 0.5-4 hours, 6-10 hours postdose; Cycle 2 Day 1: predose, 2-12 hours postdose; Cycle 3 Day 1: predose; (Cycle length is equal to [=] 28 days)
This is a Phase 2, open-label, safety and activity study of lenvatinib in subjects with KIF5B-RET-positive adenocarcinoma of the lung and other confirmed RET translocations. At least 20 subjects with KIF5B-RET and other RET translocations will be treated and will receive lenvatinib at a starting dose of 24 mg orally, once per day. The study will consist of 3 phases: The Pretreatment Phase, The Treatment Phase and the Extension Phase. The Pretreatment Phase will include screening procedures and eligibility assessments. The Pretreatment Phase consists of a Screen 1, Screen 2 and Baseline Period. The Treatment Phase will begin when the subject has met all eligibility criteria on Day 1 of the first Treatment Cycle. The Treatment Phase contains the Treatment and Follow-up Periods. The Extension Phase will begin for subjects who received treatment in the study (either in the Treatment Period or Follow-up Period) at the time of database cutoff.