Study of Therapy With TransMID™ Compared to Best Standard of Care in Patients With Glioblastoma Multiforme
TransMID treatment or best standard of care for patients with advanced glioblastoma multiforme

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a type of brain tumour. GBM tumours are usually treated with surgery and radiotherapy. Unfortunately, this type of brain tumour may continue to grow or come back (recur) despite treatment.

This trial will compare a new drug called TransMID with the best standard treatment that is currently available. TransMID is a drug that is a combination of a protein called transferrin and a poison called diphtheria toxin.

Cancer cells need iron in order to continue to grow. They need more iron than normal cells. Transferrin helps cells to take up available iron. So the cancer cells are attached to the transferrin in TransMID, and the diphtheria poison kills them. The aim of this treatment is to kill the cancer cells while not affecting the normal brain cells. This treatment for brain tumours may have fewer side effects than other treatments because it targets cancer cells.

The best standard treatment will involve giving chemotherapy. You may have chemotherapy as part of the treatment when you are diagnosed. Or it may be kept in reserve to treat your brain tumour if it comes back or continues to grow. Your cancer specialist (consultant) will decide which chemotherapy drugs you should have.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: TransMID™
Overall survival time i.e. to to death
12 month survival rate|Tumor Response|Duration of Response|Time to Progression|6 and 12 month progression rates|Progression Free Survival|6 and 12 progression free survival rate|Quality of Life
This is a Multicenter, open label, randomized study comparing TransMID™ with a chemotherapeutic regimen considered to be best standard of care and consisting of either nitrosoureas, platinum compounds, temozolomide, procarbazine, PCV, (procarbazine, lomustine (CCNU) \& vincristine), CPT-11, or Etoposide. A planned interim analysis of the primary efficacy endpoint will be conducted after approximately 50% of the required events have been observed.

In order for a patient to be eligible for enrollment into this trial, he/she must be diagnosed with glioblastoma multiforme which has been confirmed histologically and have undergone conventional treatment, including surgery (biopsy or debulking) and/or radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy, have a recurrent and/or progressive tumor ≥1.0 cm and ≤4.0 cm in diameter.