A Phase Ib/IIb, Open-label, Multi-center, Study of Oral Panobinostat Administered With 5-Azacitidine (in Adult Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS), Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia (CMML), or Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML).
The purpose of this randomized, two-arm, open-label expansion phase study was to collect preliminary efficacy data of panobinostat at the recommended phase II dose (RPIID) level in combination with azacytidine (5-Aza) versus an active control arm 5-Aza alone. This randomized phase II part also allowed collecting safety data of panobinostat in combination with 5-Aza in comparison to single-agent 5-aza.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Panobinostat (LBH589)|DRUG: 5-Azacytidine
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) (Phase lb), Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as a toxicity requiring treatment withdrawal and included the following: Non-hematologic toxicity qualifying for DLT and Hematologic toxicity qualifying for DLT, within the first 28 days (cycle 1)|Number of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) (Phase lb), Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as a toxicity requiring treatment withdrawal and included the following: Non-hematologic toxicity qualifying for DLT and Hematologic toxicity qualifying for DLT, within the first 28 days (cycle 1)|Composite Complete Response (Phase Llb), Composite complete response is defined as complete response (CR), Complete response with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) or bone marrow complete response (BM-CR) as defined by the International Working Group (IWG) response criteria., 48 months
Clinical Response Other Than Composite Clinical Response for Myeloid Dysplastic Syndromes(MDS)/Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia (CMML) Patients Per Investigator (Phase Llb), This is the best overall response as measured by Clinical response. Clinical response is defined as having complete remission (CR), bone marrow complete remission (BM-CR), partial remission or hematologic improvement (HI) as defined by the International Working Group (IWG) response criteria., 48 months|Clinical Response Other Than Composite Clinical Response for Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) Patients Per Investigator (Phase Llb), This is the best overall response as measured by Clinical response. Clinical response is defined as having complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) or partial remission as defined by the International Working Group (IWG) response criteria., 48 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Assessed by Best Overall Response: Participants With MDS/CMML Per Investigator (Phase Llb), Best overall response as measured by complete remission (CR) or bone marrow CR (BM-CR) or partial remission (PR) or hematologic improvement (HI).

Overall response patients achieved other than the composite CR by individual response category: CR, CRi, mCR or PR as defined by the International Working Group (IWG) response criteria., 48 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Assessed by Best Overall Response: Participants With AML Per Investigator (Phase Llb), Best overall response as measured by complete remission (CR) or complete response with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) or partial remission (PR).

Overall response patients achieved other than the composite CR by individual response category: CR, CRi or PR., 48 months|Hematologic Improvement (HI) for Myeloid Dysplastic Syndromes(MDS)/Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia (CMML) Patients Per Investigator (Phase Llb), Hematologic response consists of Erythroid response (HI-E), Platelet response (HI-P) and Neutrophil response (HI-N).

HI-E: Hgb increase by ≥ 1.5 g/dL over pretreatment \& relevant reduction of units of RBC transfusions by an absolute number of at least 4 units of PRBCs/8 weeks compared with the pretreatment transfusion number in the previous 8 weeks. Only RBC transfusions given for a Hgb of ≤ 9.0 g/dL pretreatment will count in the RBC transfusion response evaluation.

HI-P: Absolute increase of ≥ 30 x 109/L over pretreatment or patients starting with ≥ 20 x 109/L platelets OR increase from \<20 x 109/L at pretreatment to \> 20 x 109/L and by at least 100%.

HI-N: At least 100% increase and an absolute increase \> 0.5 x 109/L over pretreatment value., 48 months|1-year Survival Rate (Phase Llb), Overall survival was defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. If a patient was not known to have died, survival was censored at the date of last contact. Patients not known to have died were censored for 'Lost to follow-up' if the time between their last contact date and the analysis cut-off date was longer than 3 months and 2 weeks (104 days) during the first year after study evaluation completion, and longer than 6 months and 2 weeks (194 days), thereafter. The 1-year survival rate was obtained from the Kaplan-Meier analysis of overall survival, and its variance was estimated by Greenwood's formula., 12 months|Time to Progression (TTP) (Phase Llb), Time to progression (TTP) was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented PD per investigator's assessment or death due to study indication.

Time to progression was analyzed by the Kaplan Meier method. Based on the Guidelines for Implementation of international working group (IWG) response criteria in AML, MDS and CMML according to Cheson 2003 and 2006., 48 months
The primary objective of the phase lb portion of this study was to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD )and/or recommended phase ll dose (RPIID) of oral panobinostat in combination with a fixed dose of 5-Aza in adult patients with International Prognostic Scoring System intermediate-2 (IPSS INT-2) or high risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), or Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).

The primary objective of the phase llb portion of this study was to assess preliminary efficacy of treatment with the panobinostat and 5-Aza combination at the RPIID relative to treatment with single agent 5-Aza through the assessment of composite CR (complete response (CR) or CRi or bone marrow CR).

In the phase lb phase of the study, the patients received escalating oral doses of panobinostat commencing in Cycle 1. The starting dose for panobinostat was 20 mg/day administered orally commencing on Day 3. Each treatment cycle consisted of 28 days (4 weeks). In each cycle, panobinostat was administered twice in Week 1 (Day 3, Day 5), thrice in Week 2 (Day 8, Day 10, and Day 12) and once in Week 3 (Day 15), with no dosing in Week 4. Successive cohorts of patients received escalating doses of panobinostat until the MTD/RPIID was determined. The dose of 5-Aza was fixed at 75 mg/m2/day for 7 days in Week 1 of each cycle.

After the MTD/RPIID was determined, enrollment in the Phase Ib part was closed and the Phase IIb part of the study commenced. Ongoing patients from the Phase Ib part continued their treatment at the assigned dose level according to the regimen and schedule for the Phase Ib part.

Once the RPIID was defined in Phase Ib, additional 80 patients were to be enrolled into the Phase IIb part of the study and randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio receiving the RPIID of panobinostat plus 5-Aza (investigational arm) or single agent 5-Aza (active control arm). The treatment schedule for the investigational arm was the same as that for the Phase Ib. Single agent 5-Aza (active control arm) was administered according to the locally approved label (75mg/m2 daily for 7 days). Patients continued treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or consent withdrawal, whichever came first.