Safety and Efficacy Study of Tislelizumab in Combination With BCG in HR-NMIBC Patients (TACBIN-01)
This study is a single-arm, open-label, single-center study to assess the safety of tislelizumab with BCG, and to obtain the preliminary efficacy results in subjects who have been diagnosed with high-risk NMIBC without prior BCG treatment.
Urinary Bladder Neoplasms|Urologic Neoplasms|Urogenital Neoplasms|Antineoplastic Agents|Urinary Bladder Diseases|Tislelizumab Antineoplastic Agents, Immunological
DRUG: tislelizumab and BCG
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Safety, 28 days of single infusion
Event Free Survival (EFS) rate at 24 months, efficacy, approximately 24 months|Progression free survival (PFS) rate at 36 months, efficacy, approximately 36 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Safety, approximately 24 months
Biomarker (Tissue, liquid biopsy), Explorative outcome, approximately 24 months
An estimated 130,000 new cases were diagnosed with bladder cancer in China each year. About 75-85% of them are NMIBC. The standard care for high risk (HR) NMIBC is intravesicular BCG instillation. Despite BCG treatment, 40% of patients will eventually experience a recurrence, which is associated with a poorer prognosis.

This is a single center Phase I safety and efficacy study of tislelizumab with BCG treatment. The study will determine the safety of administering tislelizumab at 200mg iv q3w in conjunction with intravesicular BCG treatment in HR NMIBC patients who was treatment-naïve or BCG naïve, but underwent TURBT to remove all resectable disease (residual CIS acceptable) within 6 weeks and confirm absence of muscle invasion.

BCG installation was the stander treatment for HR NMIBC. Despite BCG treatment, 40% of patients will eventually experience a recurrence, which is associated with a poorer prognosis. It was reported that BCG increased antigen expression and cytokine release from tumor cells, leading to immune cell (e.g. CD4+ and CD8+T cells, NK, macrophages) recruitment and immune-mediated cytotoxicity (indirect effect). PD-L1 expression intravesicular is found to be extremely abundant in the tumor tissue in patients failing BCG treatment. Which may inhibit the T cell to eliminate cancer cells. Based on these data, a combination of tislelizumab with BCG may be effective in preventing recurrence of NMIBC.

The 6 subjects will be treated at a dose of 200 mg tislelizumab with 120 mg BCG to explode safety for the combination though observing DLT within 28days. If no safety issues are present, we will carry out multi-cohort Phase II study（TACBIN-02）