A Trial of Vigil for Participants With Ovarian Cancer
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare participants with ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer when treated with investigational product (Vigil) compared to placebo. The main question it aims to answer is "Will participants who receive treatment with Vigil have a longer time to disease recurrence versus the participants that were not given Vigil?"
Ovarian Cancer|Ovarian Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Vigil|OTHER: Placebo
Recurrence Free Survival (RFS), Disease recurrence will be evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 by local and central radiology. RFS is defined as the time from randomization or from surgery/procurement to the event of disease recurrence/progression or death due to any cause., Time from randomization date to either the date of first recurrence or the date of death if the participant dies prior to recurrence, assessed up to 10 years.
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to date of death due to any cause., OS will be evaluated from time of randomization until date of death can be obtained, assessed up to 10 years.
This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 study of maintenance Vigil Ovarian (gemogenovatucel-T) engineered autologous tumor cells (EATC) in women with Stage IIIb, IIIc or IV high-grade papillary serous/ clear cell / endometrioid ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer. Subjects will have had a minimum of 4 and a maximum of 12 doses of Vigil prepared and stored from ovarian tumor cells obtained at the time of primary surgical debulking or initial diagnostic / evaluative laparoscopy (tissue for immunotherapy manufacture must be procured prior to initiation of neoadjuvant chemotherapy). An equal number of placebo doses will be manufactured. Subjects eligible for randomization will have achieved a clinically defined complete response following primary surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy. Clinical complete response (cCR) is defined as no evidence of maligancy on chest x-ray and CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis, CA-125 antigen level ≤ units/mL, and no findings on physical examination or symptoms suggestive of active cancer.

Investigational treatment must start no less than 3 weeks and no more than 8 weeks following completion of chemotherapy.

Approximately 86 subjects will be randomized 1:1 to to Group A (Vigil 1.0 X 10e7 cells/injection) or Group B (placebo). Randomization will be stratified by (i) extent of surgical cytoreduction (complete/microscopic versus macroscopic residual disease) and (ii) neoadjuvant versus adjuvant chemotherapy. Participants will receive Vigil or placebo by intradermal injection once a month for at least 4 and up to a maximum of 6 doses determined by the number of doses of Vigil manufactured for that subject.

Participants will be managed in an outpatient setting. Image assessment with chest x-ray and CT scan or MRI of the abdomen and pelvis will be completed every 3 months in Years 1-3, then every 6 months in Years 4 and 5 and yearly through Year 10. At the time the participant recurs, the participant will enter long term follow-up for survival status and post treatment therapies received.