Expanded Access Program:Lenalidomide With or Without Dexamethasone In Previously Treated Subjects With Multiple Myeloma
Subjects who qualify for participation will receive lenalidomide with or without dexamethasone in 4 week cycles until disease progression is documented or lenalidomide becomes commercially available for the indication of multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: lenalidomide|DRUG: dexamethasone
Incidence of Adverse Events Summarized by System Organ Class, Preferred Term, Severity, Seriousness, and Relationship to Treatment., Data from all subjects who received any study drug were included in the analysis. Adverse events were classified using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) classification system. A subject having the same event more than once was counted only once. Adverse events were summarized by worst NCI (National Cancer Institute) CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) VERSION 3.0 grade. Incidence was defined as the number of subjects who experienced an adverse event within their period of participation in this study., Median time-on-study=18.3 weeks|Overall Incidence of Adverse Events, Data from all subjects who received any study drug were included in the analysis. Adverse events were classified using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) classification system. A subject having the same event more than once was counted only once. Adverse events were summarized by worst NCI (National Cancer Institute) CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) VERSION 3.0 grade. Incidence was defined as the number of subjects who experienced an adverse event within their period of participation in this study., Median time-on-study=18.3 weeks
This was a multicenter, non-randomized, open-label, uncontrolled, single-arm treatment study of lenalidomide as monotherapy or in combination with dexamethasone in subjects with previously treated relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma, with measurable myeloma paraprotein in serum and/or urine. Subjects who met all of the eligibility criteria were enrolled into the study. Screening procedures took place within 28 days of first dose. Subjects who qualified for participation received oral lenalidomide at a dose of 25 mg daily for 21 days every 28 days.

Subjects had the following options for dexamethasone treatment at the discretion of the treating physician:

Option A: No dexamethasone.

Option B: Oral pulse dexamethasone administered at a dose of 40 mg daily on Days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20 for each 28-day cycle.

Option C: Oral pulse dexamethasone administered at a dose of 20 mg daily on Days 1-4, 9-12, and 17-20 for each 28-day cycle.

Option D: Oral dexamethasone administered at a dose of 40 mg weekly on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 for each 28-day cycle for all cycles. Treatment was to be continued as tolerated until disease progression developed.

Doses of lenalidomide were allowed to be reduced first from 25 mg to 15 mg and then in 5-mg decrements due to lenalidomide toxicity. Subjects who could not tolerate a daily dose of 5 mg for 21 days every 28 days were discontinued from treatment. At the discretion of the investigator, doses of dexamethasone were modified due to dexamethasone toxicity. Dose reduction and discontinuation schemes for dexamethasone varied according to the treatment option administered.

Study visits occurred every 2 weeks for the first 3 cycles of therapy and then every 4 weeks after the third cycle until disease progression was documented, study drug was discontinued for another reason, or lenalidomide became commercially available for this indication.