Safety and Pharmacokinetics of Escalating Doses of DNIB0600A in Participants With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) and Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer
Study DNB4987g is a Phase I, multicenter, open label, dose-escalation study of DNIB0600A administered as a single agent by intravenous (IV) infusion every three weeks (q3w) to participants with non-squamous NSCLC or non-mucinous, platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. The study will be conducted in two cohorts: Dose-escalation cohort and Expansion cohort.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: DNIB0600A
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of an investigational medicinal product (IMP) or other protocol-imposed intervention, regardless of causality., Up to approximately 2 years
Cmax of DNIB0600A for Antibody-Conjugated Monomethyl Auristatin E (acMMAE), Total Antibody, and Unconjugated Monomethyl Auristatin E (MMAE), Cmax is the peak concentration of a substance in blood serum., Day 21|Percentage of Participants with Antibody Formation to DNIB0600A, Serum samples will be analyzed to assess the prevalence of anti-drug antibodies (ADAs) at baseline and the incidence of post-baseline ADAs in each treatment group., Up to approximately 84 weeks|Percentage of Participants with Objective Response (OR), OR is defined as a complete or partial response according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), v1.1. Complete response is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Stable disease is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to approximately 84 weeks|Duration of Objective Response (DOR), OR is defined as a complete or partial response according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), v1.1. Complete response is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Stable disease is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Progressive disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Up to approximately 84 weeks
Study DNB4987g is a Phase I, multicenter, open label, dose-escalation study of DNIB0600A administered as a single agent by intravenous (IV) infusion every three weeks (q3w) to participants with non-squamous NSCLC or non-mucinous, platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. The study will be conducted in two cohorts: Dose-escalation cohort and Expansion cohort.