Donepezil Prevents Urinary Retention After Extensive Total Hysterectomy
Patients were randomly divided into experimental group and control group. The control group received routine postoperative treatment, while the experimental group took donepezil 5mg orally before going to bed every night from the first day after surgery. The catheter was removed and residual urine was measured in both groups 14 days after surgery, the catheter was successfully removed when the residual urine was less than 100ml. After 14 days, the patient was returned to the hospital for residual urine test, and the residual urine was repeated until the residual urine volume was less than or equal to 100ml. The incidence of postoperative urinary retention and adverse drug reactions were compared between the two groups.
Urinary Retention After Procedure
DRUG: Donepezil|OTHER: Usual care
The incidence of urinary retention (residual urine volume < 100ml), Residual urine volume, No more than 6 weeks
This study hypothesized that donepezil could effectively reduce the incidence of urinary retention in cervical cancer patients after extensive total hysterectomy. A total of 108 patients with cervical cancer who underwent abdominal radical hysterectomy in our department from June 1, 2022 to May 31, 2023 were randomly divided into two groups, the experimental group (n = 54) and the control group (n = 54). The incidence of postoperative urinary retention and adverse drug reactions were compared between the two groups.

A. Screening accords with the standard set of subjects, abdominal widely whole palace resection, BiXing random grouping, experimental group from the first day after oral donnelly, pp every night before going to bed together 5 mg, two groups of patients with the rest of the regular place Agreement (including antibiotics to 48 h, postoperative indwelling catheterization, perineum wipe to wash the bid, wound dressing, etc.);

B. The catheter was removed and the residual urine was measured 14 days after operation. The residual urine was ≤100ml, and the catheter was successfully removed. The patients in the experimental group stopped taking the drug, and the residual urine was \> 100ml.

C. Residual urine of patients with urinary retention was measured again 14 days later, and the residual urine was ≤100ml. Patients in the experimental group stopped the drug, and the residual urine was \> 100ml. Intermittent catheterization was continued, and patients in the experimental group continued to take the drug until the residual urine volume was ≤100ml.

D. This cycle was carried out until the residual urine volume of the last enrolled patient was less than 100ml. The incidence of postoperative urinary retention and adverse drug reactions were compared between the two groups.