Adding an Immunotherapy Drug, MEDI4736 (Durvalumab), to the Usual Chemotherapy Treatment (Paclitaxel, Cyclophosphamide, and Doxorubicin) for Stage II-III Breast Cancer
This phase III trial compares the addition of an immunotherapy drug (durvalumab) to usual chemotherapy versus usual chemotherapy alone in treating patients with MammaPrint High 2 Risk (MP2) stage II-III hormone receptor positive, HER2 negative breast cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as paclitaxel, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. There is some evidence from previous clinical trials that people who have a MammaPrint High 2 Risk result may be more likely to respond to chemotherapy and immunotherapy. Adding durvalumab to usual chemotherapy may be able to prevent the cancer from returning for patients with MP2 stage II-III hormone receptor positive, HER2 negative breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|HER2-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Hormone Receptor-Positive Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|OTHER: Genetic Testing|PROCEDURE: Mammography|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Breast cancer event-free survival (BC-EFS), Defined as the earliest occurrence of any of the following events: Local-regional or distant progression during neoadjuvant therapy or local/regional, or distant invasive breast tumor recurrence post-surgery, invasive ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence, new invasive contralateral breast cancer, or death from any cause. The primary analysis of BC-EFS is a log-rank test between the treatment arms with stratification by the three stratification factors. Additionally, Cox regression will be used to estimate the treatment hazard ratio and 95% confidence interval including the three stratification variables as terms in the model. Kaplan-Meier graphs will show BC-EFS descriptively over time and provide 5-year estimates and 95% confidence intervals. A forest plot will show whether the treatment effect varies over the stratification variables and other selected factors., Up to 10 years after completion of study treatment
Pathologic complete response (pCR) rates, Defined as the absence of residual invasive cancer on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast and specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy (ypT0/Tis ypN0). At the completion of all treatment and surgery for all enrolled participants, there will be a comparison of pCR rates between the treatment arms. pCR rates will be compared by a test of two proportions followed by logistic regression to estimate the odds ratio after adjustment for the stratification factors., Up to 10 years after completion of study treatment|Residual cancer burden (RCB), Defined as a continuous measure of the extent of residual cancer after neoadjuvant chemotherapy that combines the largest diameter of the cancer in the breast, the tumor cell cellularity of the cancer, and the largest diameter and number of involved axillary lymph nodes into a single RCB score. RCB will be analyzed by comparing RCB 2-3 to RCB 0-1., Up to 10 years after completion of study treatment|Distant relapse-free survival (DRFS), Analyses will be performed using log-rank testing, Cox regression, and Kaplan-Meier estimation., Time from date of randomization (2nd Registration) to date of invasive distant disease recurrence or death due to any cause, assessed up to 10 years after completion of study treatment|Overall survival (OS), Analyses will be performed using log-rank testing, Cox regression, and Kaplan-Meier estimation. Will also be conducted at alpha = 0.05 (2-sided)., Time from date of randomization (2nd Registration) to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 10 years after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare breast cancer event-free survival between participants randomized to standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone versus standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy concurrent with durvalumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare pathologic complete response rates (ypT0/is, ypN0) in participants randomized to standard of care chemotherapy alone versus (vs.) standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy concurrent with durvalumab.

II. To compare residual cancer burden distribution between participants randomized to standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy vs. standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy concurrent with durvalumab.

III. To compare distant relapse-free survival between participants randomized to standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy vs. standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy concurrent with durvalumab.

IV. To compare overall survival between participants randomized to standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy vs. standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy concurrent with durvalumab.

V. To compare the frequency and severity of toxicities between participants randomized to standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy vs. standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy concurrent with durvalumab among those who initiate the assigned treatment.

PRIMARY QUALITY OF LIFE (QOL) OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the change in fatigue (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System \[PROMIS\] Fatigue) experienced by participants randomized to neoadjuvant durvalumab plus chemotherapy vs. participants randomized to chemotherapy alone at completion of active treatment (at 20 weeks from baseline).

II. To compare the change in global physical health (PROMIS Global Health) experienced by participants randomized to neoadjuvant durvalumab plus chemotherapy vs participants randomized to chemotherapy alone at completion of active treatment (at 20 weeks from baseline).

SECONDARY QOL OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the change in fatigue and global physical health experienced by participants randomized to neoadjuvant durvalumab plus chemotherapy vs participants randomized to chemotherapy alone during treatment (at 12 weeks from baseline).

II. To compare the changes in global physical health and fatigue subsequent to treatment (at years 1 and 2) between the two randomized study arms.

III. To compare the changes in global mental health (PROMIS Global Health) during active treatment (weeks 12, 20) and subsequent to treatment (at years 1 and 2) between the two randomized study arms.

IV. To compare the severity and frequency of treatment-related symptoms using Patient-Reported Outcomes Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) items (diarrhea, nausea, cough, shortness of breath, rash, and musculoskeletal pain) over time experienced by participants receiving neoadjuvant durvalumab plus chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone.

BANKING OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank specimens for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE:

STEP 1: Patients without a known MP2 score undergo MammaPrint testing on a previously-collected tissue sample. Patients with MP2 score proceed to STEP 2.

STEP 2: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive doxorubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM 2: Patients receive paclitaxel IV on days 1 and 8 of each cycle and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive doxorubicin IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 of each cycle, and durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of cycles 7 and 9. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients also undergo mammography during screening (STEP 1). Patients have the option to also undergo collection of tumor tissue during initial biopsy (STEP 1) and at standard of care (SOC) surgery and undergo collection of blood samples throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed until death or 10 years, whichever occurs first.