TOP-TRIAL Safety of Not Flushing Non-used PORT-A-CATH® in Cancer Patients
The benefits and risks of flushing or not flushing the non-used PORT-A-CATH® in cancer patients and the time interval of eventual PORT-A-CATH® flushing are currently unknown. The manufacturers of PORT-A-CATH® recommend regular flushings every 4 weeks. In clinical practice, the intervals are usually at least three months. Regular flushing might lead to a decreased risk of PORT-A-CATH® thrombosis, but may also lead to an increased infection or thrombosis rate and patients discomfort. Therefore, this study investigates the safety of not flushing the PORT-A-CATH® for 6 or 12 months.
Adjuvant Chemotherapy|Solid Tumours|Port-A-Cath
PROCEDURE: evaluation of PORT-A-CATH®|DRUG: blocking with Medunasal®-Heparinblock|DRUG: restoration of PORT-A-CATH® with Alteplase
incidences of PORT-A-CATH® related events (persistent malfunction, thrombosis, infection), 6 or 12 months
incidences of restoration of PORT-A-CATH® function by alteplase, 6 or 12 months|rate of necessary PORT-A-CATH® removal, 6 or 12 months
Currently it is unknown if flushing a non-used PORT-A-CATH® every 4 weeks is a valid strategy to preserve its functioning. Even more, decision to keep the PORT-A-CATH® after completion of adjuvant therapy cannot be based on profound patient information as there exist hardly any data regarding PORT-A-CATH® related complications of non-used PORT-A-CATH®.

The proposed prospective, two arm trial aims to investigate if no flushing of a non-used PORT-A-CATH® over a period of one year has equal PORT-A-CATH® related complications compared to flushing the PORT-A-CATH® every 4 weeks.

The proposed trial also aims to examine the frequencies of PORT-A-CATH® related complications in non-used PORT-A-CATH®. The authors put up the hypothesis that there will be fewer port-a-cath related infections in the experimental arms compared to the infection rate mentioned in the literature up to 27 %, since the puncture of the PORT-A-CATH® and the administration of fluids are the main causes of infection.