Treatment With Dinutuximab, Sargramostim (GM-CSF), and Isotretinoin in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide After Intensive Therapy for People With High-Risk Neuroblastoma (NBL)
This phase II trial studies if dinutuximab, GM-CSF, isotretinoin in combination with irinotecan, and temozolomide (chemo-immunotherapy) can be given safely to patients with high-risk neuroblastoma after Consolidation therapy (which usually consists of two autologous stem cell transplants and radiation) who have not experienced worsening or recurrence of their disease. Dinutuximab represents a kind of cancer therapy called immunotherapy. Unlike chemotherapy and radiation, dinutuximab targets the cancer cells without destroying nearby healthy cells. Sargramostim helps the body produce normal infection-fighting white blood cells. Isotretinoin helps the neuroblastoma cells become more mature. These 3 drugs (standard immunotherapy) are already given to patients with high-risk neuroblastoma after Consolidation because they have been proven to be beneficial in this setting. Chemotherapy drugs, such as irinotecan and temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. They may also affect how well immunotherapy works on neuroblastoma cells. Giving chemo-immunotherapy after intensive therapy may work better in treating patients with high-risk neuroblastoma compared to standard immunotherapy.
Ganglioneuroblastoma, Nodular|Neuroblastoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Dinutuximab|PROCEDURE: FDG-Positron Emission Tomography|RADIATION: Iobenguane I-123|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Isotretinoin|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Sargramostim|DRUG: Temozolomide
Percentage of Patients Who Complete 5 Cycles of Dinutuximab + Chemotherapy Without Progressive Disease (PD), Will be assessed by estimation of the feasibility therapy completion rate together with a 95% Wilson confidence interval (CI)., Within 30 weeks from the date of first treatment
Event-free Survival (EFS), EFS Kaplan-Meier estimates will be generated., From the time of start of protocol therapy to the occurrence of disease relapse or progression, secondary malignancy, or death, assessed at 1 year.|Overall Survival (OS), OS Kaplan-Meier estimates will be generated., From the time of start of protocol therapy to death, assessed at 1 year.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the feasibility of administering dinutuximab, GM-CSF, and isotretinoin in combination with irinotecan and temozolomide in the frontline Post-Consolidation setting in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma who have undergone Induction and Consolidation therapy with tandem high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell rescue (ASCT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicity profile of dinutuximab, GM-CSF, and isotretinoin in combination with irinotecan and temozolomide in the Post-Consolidation setting.

II. To describe the event-free survival and overall survival of patients who receive dinutuximab in combination with irinotecan and temozolomide, GM-CSF, and isotretinoin in the Post-Consolidation setting.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicity profiles associated with chemo-immunotherapy in the Post-Consolidation setting according to the type of prior therapy.

II. To describe response to chemo-immunotherapy in the Post-Consolidation setting using the revised International Neuroblastoma Risk Classification (INRC) in patients with evaluable or measurable disease at study entry.

III. To characterize immune and cytokine profiles in patients receiving Post-Consolidation chemo-immunotherapy.

IV. To bank serial blood samples to investigate the relationship between factors related to the tumor, host, and immune environment and clinical outcomes in patients treated with chemo-immunotherapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) or via enteral tube daily and irinotecan intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes daily on days 1-5, dinutuximab IV over 10-20 hours daily on days 2-5, sargramostim subcutaneously (SC) or IV over 2 hours daily on days 6-12, and isotretinoin PO twice daily (BID) on days 8-21. Patients undergo multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) during screening. Patients also undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or computed tomography (CT), iobenguane I-123 (123I-MIBG), or fludeoxyglucose F-18-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), bone marrow (BM) aspiration, and BM biopsy on study. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 5 cycles (up to 6 cycles for isotretinoin only) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54, and 60 months.