Pecha Kucha Method Effects on Posttraumatic Growth and Psychological Resilience
This study was planned to investigate the effect of the training given to breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy with pecha kucha method on posttraumatic growth and psychological resilience.
Posttraumatic Growth|Psychological Resilience|Breast Cancer Patients
OTHER: Education with pecha kucha method
Post Traumatic Growth Inventory, The 6-point Likert-type scale consists of 21 items and a 5-factor structure and is scored between 0-5. The total score that can be obtained from the scale varies between 0-105. The sub-dimensions of the scale are relationships with others, new possibilities, personal empowerment, spiritual change and appreciation of life. High scores on the scale indicate that posttraumatic growth is high., Before the training|Post Traumatic Growth Inventory, The 6-point Likert-type scale consists of 21 items and a 5-factor structure and is scored between 0-5. The total score that can be obtained from the scale varies between 0-105. The sub-dimensions of the scale are relationships with others, new possibilities, personal empowerment, spiritual change and appreciation of life. High scores on the scale indicate that posttraumatic growth is high.

Before the training

1 month after the training, 1 month after the training|Post Traumatic Growth Inventory, The 6-point Likert-type scale consists of 21 items and a 5-factor structure and is scored between 0-5. The total score that can be obtained from the scale varies between 0-105. The sub-dimensions of the scale are relationships with others, new possibilities, personal empowerment, spiritual change and appreciation of life. High scores on the scale indicate that posttraumatic growth is high.

Before the training

1 month after the training, 2 month after the training|The Brief Resilience Scale, The scale measures the psychological resilience of individuals. It is a 5-point Likert-type, 6-item, self-report measurement tool. High scores on the scale indicate high psychological resilience., Before the training|The Brief Resilience Scale, The scale measures the psychological resilience of individuals. It is a 5-point Likert-type, 6-item, self-report measurement tool. High scores on the scale indicate high psychological resilience., 1 month after the training|The Brief Resilience Scale, The scale measures the psychological resilience of individuals. It is a 5-point Likert-type, 6-item, self-report measurement tool. High scores on the scale indicate high psychological resilience., 2 month after the training
This study is a randomized controlled trial planned to investigate the effect of the training given to breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy with the pecha kucha method on posttraumatic growth and psychological resilience.