Impact of a Pharmaceutical Care Model in the Management of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Patients
Owing to effective treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) has become a chronic disease with a rising prevalence globally. Although the possibility of stopping TKI therapy in CML patients who have achieved deep molecular responses is a topic of active debate and investigation, life-long treatment remains the current standard of care. It has been estimated that 3% to 56% of CML patients are not adherent to their prescribed TKI therapy. Poor adherence to TKIs could compromise the control of CML, and contributes to poorer survival. CML patients on long-term TKI therapy are prone to developing certain medication-related issues such as adverse reactions and drug interactions.Occurrence of adverse reactions even at low grades, has been shown to impact CML patient's health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and adherence to treatment. However, there is no prospective high quality evidence showing adherence to TKIs and the associated clinical outcomes can be improved in CML patients. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that medication management intervention by pharmacist might improve adherence to TKIs, and translate into better disease response and HRQoL in CML patients, when compared to control arm who receive standard pharmacy service.
Leukemia, Myelogenous, Chronic, BCR-ABL Positive|Medication Adherence
BEHAVIORAL: Pharmaceutical care and adherence aids
Changes in percentage of patients who adhere to prescribed TKI therapy, Adherence is defined as having an medication possession ratio (MPR) of greater than 90% (calculated as days' supply of TKI dispensed divided by number of days of the study period) from electronic prescription refill database system, Evaluated at 2 time frame, (a) Immediate effect of intervention: 1-3 months pre-intervention until 6 months after starting intervention; (b) long-term effect of intervention: 1-3 months pre-intervention until 6 months after the end of intervention
Changes in percentage of patients who achieve major/deep molecular response to TKI, Molecular response is determined as log-reduction of BCR-ABL1 mRNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in international scale (IS), Evaluated at 2 time frame, (a) 0-3 months pre-intervention until 6 months after starting intervention; (b) 0-3 months pre-intervention until 6 months after the end of intervention|Mean changes in health-related quality of life status, HRQoL is determined as patient-reported score on EORTC QLQ-C30 and CML24 questionnaire, Evaluated at 2 time frame, (a) 1 week pre-intervention until 6 months after starting intervention; (b) 1 week pre-intervention until 6 months after the end of intervention
Owing to effective treatment with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) has become a chronic disease with a rising prevalence globally. Although the possibility of stopping TKI therapy in CML patients who have achieved deep molecular responses is a topic of active debate and investigation, life-long treatment remains the current standard of care. It has been estimated that 3% to 56% of CML patients are not adherent to their prescribed TKI therapy. Poor adherence to TKIs could compromise the control of CML, and contributes to poorer survival. CML patients on long-term TKI therapy are prone to developing certain medication-related issues such as adverse reactions and drug interactions.Occurrence of adverse reactions even at low grades, has been shown to impact CML patient's health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and adherence to treatment. However, there is no prospective high quality evidence showing adherence to TKIs and the associated clinical outcomes can be improved in CML patients. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that medication management intervention by pharmacist might improve adherence to TKIs, and translate into better disease response and HRQoL in CML patients, when compared to control arm who receive standard pharmacy service.