High-Intensity Interval Training for Stage I-III Breast Cancer Patients
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies the feasibility of high-intensity interval training in improving cardiovascular fitness in patients with stage I-III breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy with trastuzumab. Trastuzumab helps patients live longer, but may cause side effects to the heart. Aerobic exercise may help the heart function better, which may help protect it against side effects from trastuzumab. Exercise may also help reduce fatigue and prevent cancer from coming back. High-intensity interval training involves short bursts of higher intensity efforts with longer periods of recovery. This may also allow patients who cannot exercise for a long period of time to still be physically active. This trial studies whether patients can tolerate high-intensity interval training, and how well it works in improving fitness in patients with breast cancer receiving trastuzumab.
Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage IIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Feasibility of utilizing HIT under clinical trial conditions, assessed using participant attendance rate, The exercise program will be considered feasible if participants complete greater than 80% of exercise sessions. Participant attendance rates will be used to establish compliance and will be used to provide a perspective on how and to what extent cancer patients will participate in an experimental exercise intervention and what variations in exercise intensities may be tolerated. Feasibility will be assessed based on both program attendance as well as exercise time completed., Up to 17 weeks
Change in aerobic exercise adaptation measured by the maximum volume of oxygen uptake (VO2peak) (ml/kg/min), A mixed-effect regression model will be fit to compare the mean changes in VO2peak (ml/kg/min) between groups. The effect of other covariates such as the menopausal age, severity of disease and the class of chemotherapy treatment and compliance rate on VO2peak (ml/kg/min) over time will also be examined., Baseline to up to week 17|Change in left ventricular function, A mixed-effect model will be fit to compare the mean changes in left ventricular ejection fraction, left ventricular end-diastolic volume, left ventricular end-systolic volume, and peak filling time. The effect of other covariates such as the menopausal age, severity of disease and the class of chemotherapy treatment and compliance rate on left ventricular function over time will also be examined., Baseline to up to week 17
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility (completion of \> 80% exercise sessions) of utilizing high-intensity interval training (HIT).

II. To determine the effects of HIT on aerobic exercise adaptation when compared to delayed group.

III. To examine the effects of HIT on left ventricular function when compared to delayed group.

IV. To determine the effects of HIT on endothelial function, arterial stiffness, and vascular atherosclerosis when compared to delayed group.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

ARM I: HIT (High-intensity Interval Training) group - Participants undergo HIT over 30 minutes, thrice weekly for 8 weeks.

ARM II: DEL (Delayed/usual care) group - Participants maintain their current sedentary activity level (\< 60 minutes of total exercise per week) for 8 weeks. Participants document their weekly activity in an exercise log. Following completion of all study visits, participants are given the option to complete the HIT exercise program as in Arm I.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at weeks 9 and 17.