Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma
This early phase I trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating patients with gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma that has spread to other places or cannot be removed by surgery. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Advanced Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Clinical Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVB Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Pathologic Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIC Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of the subjects in the analysis population who have a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Responses are based on assessments by the blinded MD Anderson radiology per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Exact method based on binomial distribution (Clopper-Pearson method)., Up to 4 years
Duration of response, Based on assessments by MD Anderson radiology per RECIST 1.1. Summary statistics using Kaplan-Meier method, if sample size permits., From first documented evidence of CR or PR up to 4 years|Disease control rate, Defined as the percentage of subjects who have achieved CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) for at least 24 weeks based on assessments by MD Anderson radiology per RECIST 1.1. Exact method based on binomial distribution (Clopper-Pearson method)., Up to 4 years|Time to progression, Assessed per RECIST 1.1 based on assessments by MD Anderson radiology. Summary statistics using Kaplan-Meier method., From the first day of study treatment up to 4 years|Progression-free survival per RECIST 1.1 based on assessments by MD Anderson radiology, Summary statistics using Kaplan-Meier method., From the first day of study treatment to the first documented disease progression up to 4 years|Overall survival, Summary statistics using Kaplan-Meier method., From first dose of study medication up to 4 years|Incidence of adverse events, Defined by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0. Adverse events will be assessed. Specific events will be collected and designated as events of clinical interest (ECIs)., Up to 30 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the overall response rate (ORR) of intravenous administration of pembrolizumab by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 in adult subjects with advanced (unresectable and/or metastatic) and previously treated gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the duration of response (DOR), disease control rate (DCR), time to progression (TTP), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) using RECIST 1.1 and immune-related (ir)RECIST criteria.

II. To perform exploratory biomarkers to study the correlation between immunological and molecular changes in tumor tissues and peripheral blood with clinical outcomes (DOR, DCR, TTP, PFS, and OS) using RECIST 1.1, and irRECIST rate of adverse events.

III. To determine the safety and tolerability of intravenous administration of pembrolizumab or pembrolizumab plus ramucirumab in adult subjects with advanced (unresectable and/or metastatic) and previously treated gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the association between PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry, shed PD-L1 levels, somatic gene expression profiling and antitumor efficacy of pembrolizumab based on RECIST 1.1 imaging criteria as well as overall survival.

II. To explore the relationship between genomic variation and response to the treatment administered.

III. Tissue and blood immune monitoring will be conducted through our immune platform group as detailed per the biomarker section based on 3 biopsies done at the following time points: 1) pre-treatment, 2) 6 weeks after therapy, and 3) and an optional biopsy upon progression.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks thereafter.