Gemcitabine in Newly-Diagnosed Diffuse Midline Glioma
The primary aim of this study is to determine the presence of gemcitabine in childhood diffuse midline gliomas (DMG) (previously classified as diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma \[DIPG\]) after systemic treatment with the drug.
Glial Tumor of Brain|Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma|Glioma
DRUG: Gemcitabine|PROCEDURE: Tumor biopsy and blood draw
Number of participants with detectable intratumoral gemcitabine after systemic treatment with the drug, Gemcitabine will be considered to be detectable in a participant's tumor sample if gemcitabine or one of its metabolites (difluorodeoxyuridine \[dFdU\] or gemcitabine triphosphate \[dFdCTP\]) is detected at a measurable level in any of the participant's tumor samples. Undetectable gemcitabine will be defined as gemcitabine, dFdU, and dFdCTP levels below the detectable limits for all of an individual participant's samples, in the setting of detectable gemcitabine, dFdU, or dFdCTP in the plasma and/or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for that patient, and the pathologic review showing viable tumor tissue., Day 1
Concentration of gemcitabine in patient tumor sample, Gemcitabine, dFdU and dFdCTP will be quantified in the available tumor sample(s), in plasma, and in CSF (if available). For this pilot trial, gemcitabine PK results will be analyzed descriptively, and this trial is not designed for statistical analysis., Day 1
Participants in this study will be given a one-time, intravenous (IV) dose of gemcitabine prior to having standard-of-care surgery. During surgery, biopsies will be obtained for clinical and research purposes along with a blood sample. Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) is optional and will only be obtained if clinically indicated. This will be determined by the investigators and the provider performing the procedure.

Because patients will be undergoing a biopsy/resection as part of their standard-of-care therapy, this is an optimal time to obtain a tumor biopsy for this study. The biopsy will serve to see if the study drug is penetrating the tumor. Patients will then enter a follow-up period for 30 days post-surgery.

This trial is in conjunction with a University of Colorado trial started in 2016, "Gemcitabine in Children With Newly-Diagnosed Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma" (NCT02992015).