SU5416 Plus Hormone Therapy and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: SU5416 may stop the growth of cancer by stopping blood flow to the tumor. Androgens can stimulate the growth of prostate cancer cells. Hormone therapy using flutamide, bicalutamide, leuprolide, or goserelin may fight prostate cancer by reducing the production of androgens. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Combining SU5416, hormone therapy, and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of SU5416 plus hormone therapy and radiation therapy in treating patients who have prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: bicalutamide|DRUG: flutamide|DRUG: goserelin acetate|DRUG: leuprolide acetate|DRUG: SU5416|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Side effects of SU5416 in combination with standard hormone treatment and radiation in men with prostate cancer, 24 weeks
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the safety of SU5416 in combination with standard androgen ablation and radiotherapy in patients with intermediate or advanced-stage prostate cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of SU5416. Patients receive oral bicalutamide once daily or oral flutamide three times daily for at least 1 month followed by leuprolide or goserelin subcutaneously once monthly for four months. Beginning after the fourth administration of leuprolide or goserelin, patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 7-8 weeks. Beginning one month before radiotherapy and continuing until 1 month after radiotherapy, patients receive SU5416 IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 4. Treatment repeats weekly in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-12 patients receive escalating doses of SU5416 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 3 of 12 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Patients are followed every 4-6 weeks for 4 months and then every 8-12 weeks for 8 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-18 patients will be accrued for this study.