ROTEM-guided Transfusion Protocol in Attempt to Reduce Blood Transfusions in Major Oncological Surgery
Need for perioperative blood transfusion is still high in certain types of oncological abdominal surgery. Allogeneic blood transfusion may be detrimental in cancer patients undergoing a potentially curative resection of malignant tumor, although the detailed mechanism of this effect is still under debate. We plan to evaluate whether a new, rotational thromboelastography-guided algorithm (ROTEM) to guide hemostatic resuscitation intra-operatively decreases the use of allogeneic blood products, the total amount of bleeding, transfusion related side effects, thromboembolic complications and costs. Its effect on each patient's post-operative hemostatic profile is also measured. 60 patients having a potentially curative pancreaticoduodenectomy (or resection of cauda of pancreas), total removal or partial resection of kidney and open radical cystectomy are recruited when an active blood loss of more than 1500 ml is estimated and/or measured and are randomized into two groups: one will be treated conventionally, ie. using massive transfusion protocol (MTP) if necessary, clinical judgement and conventional coagulation tests, the other treated using a ROTEM-based algorithm.
Blood Loss, Surgical|Blood Loss Requiring Transfusion|Coagulation Defect; Acquired
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Rotational thromboelastometry|OTHER: Conventional treatment
Number of transfused red blood cell (RBC) units, Red blood cell units transfused per patient during operation or up to 24 hours after beginning of surgery, 24 hours after beginning of surgery
Intensive care admissions, Number of patients admitted to intensive care or high dependency, if this is considered associating with the surgery, 30 days after surgery|Length of hospital stay, Number of days patient is in hospital immediately after surgery, 30 days after surgery|Transfusion-related side effects, Any side-effect considered or suspected originating from blood product transfusion, 30 days after surgery|Thromboembolic events, Clinically diagnosed deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, stroke or other thromboembolic event, 30 days after surgery
Signs of altered coagulation, Possible signs hypercoagulopathy in thromboelastometry: EXTEM value of more than 72 mm, 12-24 hours after surgery
Need for perioperative blood transfusion is still high in certain types of oncological abdominal surgery. Allogeneic blood transfusion may be detrimental in cancer patients undergoing a potentially curative resection of malignant tumor, although the detailed mechanism of this effect is still under debate. We plan to evaluate whether a new, rotational thromboelastography-guided algorithm (ROTEM) to guide hemostatic resuscitation intra-operatively decreases the use of allogeneic blood products, the total amount of bleeding, transfusion related side effects, thromboembolic complications and costs. Its effect on each patient's post-operative hemostatic profile is also measured. 60 patients having a potentially curative pancreaticoduodenectomy (or resection of cauda of pancreas), total removal or partial resection of kidney and open radical cystectomy are recruited when an active blood loss of more than 1500 ml is estimated and/or measured and are randomized into two groups: one will be treated conventionally, ie. using massive transfusion protocol (MTP) if necessary, clinical judgement and conventional coagulation tests, the other treated using a ROTEM-based algorithm.