Nuclear Matrix and Cancer: Proteomic and Genomic Analyses Using Microarray in Cells Obtained Via Thoracocentesis
Accurate characterization of malignant cells obtained via thoracocentesis is of paramount importance in the management of cancer patients. The identification of novel biomarkers may in that regard considerably improve the diagnostic approach of these pleural effusions, guide therapeutic decisions, particularly with respect to targeted therapies, and offer helpful prognostic information. Nuclear anomalies represent the cornerstone of the cytologic and/or histopathologic diagnosis of malignant cells. The nuclear matrix is a fundamental constituent of the nuclear architecture via its interaction with the nuclear membrane, but is also directly involved with DNA and RNA processing. Prior studies have suggested that in some cancers, the lamins, a major constituent of the nuclear matrix, have different patterns of expression or nuclear localization that could potentially have prognostic implications. Our project aims at studying the constituents of the nuclear matrix of malignant cells isolated for pleural fluid in patients with metastatic disease, both of bronchogenic or non-bronchogenic origin, which, to our knowledge, has not yet been done. Both proteomic (localization by immunofluorescence and expression by Western-Blot) and genomic (microarray, CGH type) analyses will be undertaken to identify microrearrangements in the genes of interest. The primary aim is to identify specific biomarkers to more accurately characterize malignant cells in metastatic pleural disease.
Cancer
GENETIC: blood sample, thoracocentesis
identify specific biomarkers to more accurately characterize malignant cells in metastatic pleural disease, Research for quantitative or qualitative nuclear-matrix-proteins anomalies in secondary metastatic pleural disease and/or for anomalies in the genes coding for these proteins.

Protein analysis : immunofluorenscy, western blot. Genomic analysis : CGH arrays., 2 years
Variations of nuclear matrix proteins expression or localization in malignant cells released in pleural liquid, 2 years|Comparison of nuclear matrix protein expression in metastatic cells, by taking account of the origin and the histological nature of the primitive tumor, 2 years|Identify genomic anomalies of the interest genes, the tumoral cells genome versus the peripheral cells genome, 2 years|Search existence of a correlation between the quantity of expressed proteins and the number of genes copies in the tumoral cells, 2 years|Compare their results with the data published on cell-lineages and on tissular samples, Showing differences between tumor cells, cell-lineages and cells released in the liquid, 2 years
Accurate characterization of malignant cells obtained via thoracocentesis is of paramount importance in the management of cancer patients. The identification of novel biomarkers may in that regard considerably improve the diagnostic approach of these pleural effusions, guide therapeutic decisions, particularly with respect to targeted therapies, and offer helpful prognostic information. Nuclear anomalies represent the cornerstone of the cytologic and/or histopathologic diagnosis of malignant cells. The nuclear matrix is a fundamental constituent of the nuclear architecture via its interaction with the nuclear membrane, but is also directly involved with DNA and RNA processing. Prior studies have suggested that in some cancers, the lamins, a major constituent of the nuclear matrix, have different patterns of expression or nuclear localization that could potentially have prognostic implications. Our project aims at studying the constituents of the nuclear matrix of malignant cells isolated for pleural fluid in patients with metastatic disease, both of bronchogenic or non-bronchogenic origin, which, to our knowledge, has not yet been done. Both proteomic (localization by immunofluorescence and expression by Western-Blot) and genomic (microarray, CGH type) analyses will be undertaken to identify microrearrangements in the genes of interest. The primary aim is to identify specific biomarkers to more accurately characterize malignant cells in metastatic pleural disease.