Upfront Bevacizumab/témozolomide for Gliomastomas With Neurological Impairment
New approaches are needed for patients newly diagnosed with bulky glioblastoma (GB) and/or with severe neurological impairment that cannot benefit from first line temozolomide (TMZ)-basedn chemoradiotherapy. Bevacizumab (BEV), an antiangiogenic anti-VEGF-R monoclonal antibody, has a rapid impact on tumor-related brain edema in recurrent GB. The present study reports the feasibility and efficacy of an induction treatment with TMZ and BEV to alleviate the initial neurological impairment and/or to reduce the tumor volume before a delayed chemoradiotherapy.
Chemoradiotherapy
OTHER: TMZ and BEV induction before chemoradiotherapy
Optimal chemoradiotherapy after upfront TMZ and BEV treatment., The investigators reported here a series of patients in whom radiotherapy was considered as not feasible in first intention but most of which could be treated by optimal chemoradiotherapy after upfront TMZ and BEV treatment. The investigators analyzed the impact of this induction strategy on tumor and target volumes, neurological status and survival., 4-months
New approaches are needed for patients newly diagnosed with bulky glioblastoma (GB) and/or with severe neurological impairment that cannot benefit from first line temozolomide (TMZ)-based chemoradiotherapy. Bevacizumab (BEV), an antiangiogenic anti-VEGF-R monoclonal antibody, has a rapid impact on tumor-related brain edema in recurrent GB. The present study reports the feasibility and efficacy of an induction treatment with TMZ and BEV to alleviate the initial neurological impairment and/or to reduce the tumor volume before a delayed chemoradiotherapy.

The investigators retrospectively analyzed tumor and target volumes and clinical neurological status in 39 patients with bulky GB and/or with severe neurological impairment after an induction treatment combining TMZ and BEV. Neurological and radiological responses were assessed according to RANO criteria.

Calculating gross tumor and clinical target volumes (GTV and CTV) was done at diagnosis and before radiotherapy. Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were determined by Kaplan Meier methods. Safety was reported according to NCTCAE.