FOLFIRI and Panitumumab in Treating Patients With RAS and BRAF Wild-Type Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and irinotecan hydrochloride (FOLFIRI) together with panitumumab work in treating patients with colorectal cancer that expresses the RAS and B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase (BRAF) wild-type genes, has spread from the original site of growth to another part of the body (metastatic), resists the effects of treatment with prior cetuximab (or panitumumab) plus irinotecan hydrochloride-based therapy, and who have failed at least one subsequent non-anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) containing treatment regimen. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and irinotecan hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells. Monoclonal antibodies, such as panitumumab, may block tumor growth in different ways by targeting certain cells. Giving FOLFIRI together with panitumumab may be an effective treatment for colorectal cancer.
Recurrent Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab
4-month Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate, PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including baseline sum), or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., At 4 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the response rate (RR) and progression-free survival (PFS) with FOLFIRI + panitumumab in patients with acquired resistance to panitumumab (or cetuximab) + irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride)-based therapy after a documented clinical response or prolonged PFS and following progression on a subsequent non-anti-EGFR containing regimen in extended RAS wild-type and BRAF wild-type patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the overall survival (OS) in the re-challenge populations.

II. Describe the safety of re-challenge in this population.

III. Investigate the impact of PFS, RR on prior anti-EGFR + irinotecan-based exposure on the response and PFS on the current study.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Collect serial plasma samples to investigate the incidence of RAS and BRAF mutation in circulating free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) at baseline, every 2 months, and at the time to progression (and following progression when feasible).

II. Collect serial plasma samples for future biomarker exploration, including the potential investigation of micro-ribonucleic acid (RNA).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes, irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes, leucovorin calcium orally (PO), and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months thereafter.