Effect of NK Cell Immunotherapy on Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma Adenocarcinoma With EGFR Mutation
This study was attempted to investigate the efficiency of NK cells immunotherapy on non-small cell lung cancer with and without EGFR mutation, and evaluated response rate (RR) and the progression-free survival (PFS).
NK Cell Mediated Immunity
BIOLOGICAL: NK cells
Clinical response, Based on the Response Evaluation Criteria Solid Tumors (RECIST), the therapeutic effect was divided into complete response (CR), partial response (PR),stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD). Investigators calculated the sum area of all tumors 3 months after NK treatment. The recent curative effect must have been maintainedat \>4 weeks; CR + PR denoted the effective response rate (RR)., Calculated the sum area of all tumors 3 months after NK treatment
Detection of immune function, Patients were detected Lymphocyte subgroups of 1ml peripheral blood by Flow cytometer (BD FACSCalibur), which inclunde the T cell number, CD4T cell number, CD8 T cell number and NK cell number., Before and 3 months after NK cell therapy|Analysis of tumor biomarker CEA and CA125 levels in serum, Patients were detected the Serum Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CA125 level by Elisa kit.Investigators compared the level of CEA and CA125 in serum before and 3 months after NK cell therapy to perform the therapeutic evaluation.

factor to identify patients tumor recurrence.We then compared the level of CEA and CA125 in serum before and 3 months after NK cell therapy to perform the therapeutic evaluation., Before and 3 months after NK cell therapy
The endpoints of interest were progression-free survival (PFS)., Investigators evaluated the Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) according to the comprehensive assessment of clinical activity, disease level, and self-care ability.

Status (KPS) according to the comprehensive assessment of clinical activity, disease level, and self-care ability., The KPS scores were collected pre-treatment and at 12 months post-treatment.
Investigators will enrolle 100 patients who met the enrollment criteria. 50 patients were clinically confirmed EGFR mutation positive. They were divided into two groups (group A and group C according to if accepted NK therapy) in accordance with the principles of randomized. The rest 50 patients which were EGFR mutation negative were also divided into two groups (group B and group D) in accordance with the principles of randomized to be paired respectively with group A and group C. Comparison of lymphocyte number, serum tumor related biomarkers, circulating Tumor Cell (CTC), KPS and survival curves was carried out before after NK cell immunotherapy. The safety and short-term effects were evaluated followed by the median PDA, response rate assessment.