Quality of Life and Supportive Care Preferences Following Radiation Therapy in Prostate Cancer Survivors
This pilot clinical trial studies quality of life and supportive care preferences following radiation therapy in prostate cancer survivors. Studying quality of life and supportive care preferences in patients undergoing radiation therapy may help identify the effects of treatment on patients with prostate cancer.
Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Undergo HRV and wear accelerometer to assess therapy complications|PROCEDURE: Dual X-ray Absorptiometry|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Develop an understanding of the impacts of prostate cancer on HRQL measured by the SF-36, Significance tests for the difference between treatment groups on all primary outcomes will be conducted. Data will be individually standardized by covariates such as age, disease stage and grade, time on treatment values and will be evaluated using an analysis of co-variance statistical mode. Descriptive statistics for the feasibility measures will be calculated prospectively throughout the trial., Baseline|Psychological resiliency measured by Connor Davidson Resiliency Scale, The relationship with self-reported measures of quality of life and stress will be determined. Significance tests for the difference between treatment groups on all primary outcomes will be conducted. Data will be individually standardized by covariates such as age, disease stage and grade, time on treatment values and will be evaluated using an analysis of co-variance statistical mode. Descriptive statistics for the feasibility measures will be calculated prospectively throughout the trial., Baseline|Explore whether heart rate variability is associated with the SF-36 and Connor Davidson Resiliency Scale., Significance tests for the difference between treatment groups on all primary outcomes will be conducted. Data will be individually standardized by covariates such as age, disease stage and grade, time on treatment values and will be evaluated using an analysis of co-variance statistical mode. Descriptive statistics for the feasibility measures will be calculated prospectively throughout the trial., Up to 1 week
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To develop an understanding of the impacts of prostate cancer on aspects of psychological stress, physiological stress and health related quality of life (HRQL) for men who are being treated with some level of radiation therapy (RT).

II. To gain insight into the perceived needs of survivors depending on their disease stage, treatment regimen and side effects.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore whether biomarkers of stress, inflammation and autonomic control (heart rate variability \[HRV\]) can confirm or dispel the self-reported measures of psychological distress and HRQL of a unique population of aging men with prostate cancer.

OUTLINE:

Participants complete questionnaires about quality of life and preferences for supportive care treatment, undergo heart rate variability testing over 10-15 minutes while both lying down and standing, complete a walking test, wear an accelerometer for a period of 1 week, and undergo a single intelligent dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (iDXA) scan over 10 minutes.