Phase II Study of Abraxane and Gemicitabine in Patients With Advanced Adenocarcinoma Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Progressing After First-Line Platinum-Based Chemotherapy
The main purpose of this study is to see how well the combination of Abraxane and gemcitabine works in people with advanced adenocarcinoma NSCLC who have already had treatment for their disease. Gemcitabine and Abraxane are FDA approved chemotherapies; however, the FDA has not approved this combination in the treatment of this specific type of cancer. Patients may continue to receive the study drugs until their disease gets worse or they have unacceptable side effects.
Patients With Stage IV or Recurrent Adenocarcinoma of the Lung
DRUG: Abraxane|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Overall Response Rate, The percentage of patients with a Partial Response or Complete Response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Averaging about 16 weeks.
Progression-free Survival, Measures the length of time from the first day of therapy until Progressive Disease, death from any cause, or last patient contact. Disease Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Averaging about 16 weeks|Overall Survival, Length of time from the first day of therapy to death from any cause or last patient contact, Averaging about 47 weeks|Disease Control Rate, The percentage of patients with a Partial Response, a Complete Response, or Stable Disease during the study. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., The duration of study treatment, averaging about 16 weeks.
The main purpose of this study is to see how well the combination of Abraxane and gemcitabine works in people with advanced adenocarcinoma NSCLC who have already had treatment for their disease. Gemcitabine and Abraxane are FDA approved chemotherapies; however, the FDA has not approved this combination in the treatment of this specific type of cancer. Patients may continue to receive the study drugs until their disease gets worse or they have unacceptable side effects.