Paclitaxel/Carboplatin + Galunisertib for Patients With Carcinosarcoma of the Uterus or Ovary
This is a Phase 1 B feasibility trial with Galunsertib, a TGFβ inhibitor, in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel in patients with newly diagnosed, persistent or recurrent carcinosarcoma of the uterus or ovary. The objective of the study is to determine whether this drug combination is safe for this patient population and to see if it is effective in shrinking cancers, keeping them from growing or helping patients live longer.
Carcinosarcoma, Ovarian
DRUG: Galunisertib|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
Proportion of Patients With Completion of 4 Cycles of CT + GB, Completion of 4 cycles of CT + GB- completion of a cycle will be defined as receiving both carboplatin/paclitaxel and taking ≥75% of the doses of GB for the cycle., 2 years
Median Progression Free Survival (Months), Progression free survival is defined as time from when the patient is registered on the study until RECIST v1.1 documented disease progression as per the protocol or death., through study completion, an average of 3 years|Median Overall Survival (Months), Overall survival defined as time from study entry to death, through study completion, an average of 3 years|Objective Response, Proportion of patients who had RECIST documented partial or complete response. Measurable disease is defined as at least one lesion that can be accurately measured in at least one dimension (longest dimension to be recorded). Each lesion must be ≥ 10 mm when measured by CT and MRI; or ≥ 20 mm when measured by conventional techniques, including plain x-ray. Response was documented per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions., within three years of study entry
Patients who consent to this study will receive treatment for four 28 day cycles unless they are unable to continue study treatment due to toxicity or disease progression. Paclitaxel and carboplatin will be given intravenously on day 1 of each cycle and galunisertib in pill form on days 4-17. No medicine will be given on days 17-28 of each cycle. Patients may have the option of continuing treatment with the study drug if they complete the 4 cycles the study requires. Subjects will receive tests and procedures that are part of regular cancer care as well as those required for the purposes of the study. Blood samples will be taken to monitor the level of study drug in the blood. Patients will have the option of allowing blood and tumor samples to be used for future research.