Establishment and Clinical Assessment of a Prostate Cancer (PCa) Risk Model Based on the Updated Circulating Tumor Cell (CTC) Detection Technique
1. To elucidate the role of CTC detection in the evaluation of risk level in PCa patients, and establish a mathematic model for predicting the pathological status.
2. To explore the possible subtle change in CTC condition after radical prostatectomy.
Prostatic Neoplasms|Prostatic Adenoma
OTHER: Blood draws
Circulating tumor cell (CTC) total number and epithelial-intermediate-mesenchymal ratio detected by CTC enrichment and FISH technique, This step should be completed within the day when the peripheral venous blood is drawn., 1 day before operation|Pathological findings (whether the patient has: 1.OC, organ confined; 2.EPE, extraprostatic extension; 3. SVI, seminal vesicle invasion; 4. LNI, lymph node invasion) during the radical prostectomy, confirmed by pathology section result, The pathology section evaluation will be done by two pathologists independently. A third pathology expert will join to make a final decision if opposite results are given by the two pathologists., On the day of operation|CTC total number and epithelial-intermediate-mesenchymal ratio detected by CTC enrichment and FISH technique, This step should be completed within the day when the peripheral venous blood is drawn., 3 months after operation|CTC total number and epithelial-intermediate-mesenchymal ratio detected by CTC enrichment and FISH technique, This step should be completed within the day when the peripheral venous blood is drawn., 12 months after operation
Prostate specific antigen (PSA) level measurement using peripheral venous blood, The blood should be drawn together with that for CTC detection, 3 months after operation|Prostate specific antigen (PSA) level measurement using peripheral venous blood, The blood should be drawn together with that for CTC detection, 6 months after operation|PSA level measurement using peripheral venous blood, The blood should be drawn together with that for CTC detection, 9 months after operation|Radiological evaluation including isotope bone scanning and pelvic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan, Radiological evaluation should be conducted after the blood is drawn for CTC and PSA detection., 12 months after operation
1. Detect and evaluate the CTC status (a total of 3 times: 1 day before sugery, 3/12 months after surgery) for all of the PCa patients enrolled. Analyze the CTC result with PSA level, needle biopsy and radiological imaging information.
2. Analyze the difference in CTC amount/Epithelial-Mesenchymal ratio between patients in different D'Amico risk level(low/intermediate/high).
3. Establish a mathematic model based on the CTC results and pathological condition observed in operation (OC, organ confined; EPE, extraprostatic extension; SVI, seminal vesicle invasion; LNI, lymph node invasion), and compare this model with the latest version of Partin table.
4. Detect and compare the CTC and PSA level 3/12 months after surgery. Evaluate the radiological condition in 12 months after blood draw.