Ultrasound Contrast-Enhanced Accurate Diagnosis of Preoperative Staging of Bladder Cancer
Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technologies have become essential tools for the diagnosis and preoperative staging assessment of bladder cancer. However, establishing a precise system suitable for clinical application remains a significant challenge, and accurate prediction of bladder cancer staging is not yet possible. Therefore, exploring a system for the precise diagnosis of preoperative staging of bladder cancer using ultrasound contrast enhancement or a combination of ultrasound contrast enhancement and MRI is of great importance. The applicant has previously demonstrated the accuracy of multimodal data analysis in the diagnosis and prediction of malignant tumors. Preliminary results from this study have shown that ultrasound contrast enhancement has a high diagnostic efficacy for the preoperative staging assessment of bladder cancer, with a high area under the curve (AUC) of 0.88, sensitivity of 83.3%, specificity of 92.5%, and accuracy of 90.8%. In this project, the applicant intends to further expand the sample size and, based on the combination of ultrasound contrast enhancement and MRI, develop a precise diagnostic system for the preoperative staging of bladder cancer to aid clinical treatment decisions.
Bladder Cancer|Staging|Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Contrast Enhanced Ultrasound (CEUS)
Detection of Muscle Invasion in Bladder Cancer, To evaluate the preoperative staging of bladder cancer，whether it is non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) or muscle invasive bladder cancers (MIBC), within 3 minutes
Ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technologies have become essential tools for the diagnosis and preoperative staging assessment of bladder cancer. However, establishing a precise system suitable for clinical application remains a significant challenge, and accurate prediction of bladder cancer staging is not yet possible. Therefore, exploring a system for the precise diagnosis of preoperative staging of bladder cancer using ultrasound contrast enhancement or a combination of ultrasound contrast enhancement and MRI is of great importance. The applicant has previously demonstrated the accuracy of multimodal data analysis in the diagnosis and prediction of malignant tumors. Preliminary results from this study have shown that ultrasound contrast enhancement has a high diagnostic efficacy for the preoperative staging assessment of bladder cancer, with a high area under the curve (AUC) of 0.88, sensitivity of 83.3%, specificity of 92.5%, and accuracy of 90.8%. In this project, the applicant intends to further expand the sample size and, based on the combination of ultrasound contrast enhancement and MRI, develop a precise diagnostic system for the preoperative staging of bladder cancer to aid clinical treatment decisions.