Dose Escalation Trial of WT1-specific Donor-derived T Cells Following T-Cell Depleted Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation for Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of specialized white cells from the donor at different doses. They are called WT1 sensitized T cells. They have been grown in the lab and are immunized against a protein. The protein is called the Wilms' tumor protein, or WT1. The multiple myeloma cells make and express this protein". The investigators want to learn whether the WT1 sensitized T cells will attach to the protein and kill the myeloma cells. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, it has on the patient and multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: busulfan|DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG)|PROCEDURE: a T cell depleted stem cell transplant
assess the toxicities, DLT will be defined as a grade III or greater toxicity developing within 3 weeks of the T cell infusion, as graded by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 or new development of grade II-IV acute GVHD within 3 weeks of the T cell infusion that requires treatment with systemic glucocorticosteroids. Patients will be evaluated for 21 days for grade III or greater toxicities., 21 days|maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Patients will also be monitored for secondary or immune-mediated graft rejection and or onset of grade II-IV acute GVHD following the administration of WT1-specific T-cell infusions. Because patients may still have transplantation associated cytopenia or may have residual disease that may be associated with cytopenias, hematologic toxicity will be excluded in assessing DLT. All patients will be observed for a minimum of 3 weeks after the first WT-1 peptide sensitized T-cell infusion before the dose can be escalated., 1 year
serologic response, In addition, patients will be monitored for serologic responses of their myelomas. The time at which the response was achieved will be recorded for all patients and summarized by dose level. The data derived from these studies will provide an initial assessment of the effects of the T cell infusions., 2 years|survival, To quantitate the number of WT1-specific T cells in the blood and marrow at defined intervals post infusion, 2 years
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of specialized white cells from the donor at different doses. They are called WT1 sensitized T cells. They have been grown in the lab and are immunized against a protein. The protein is called the Wilms' tumor protein, or WT1. The multiple myeloma cells make and express this protein". The investigators want to learn whether the WT1 sensitized T cells will attach to the protein and kill the myeloma cells. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, it has on the patient and multiple myeloma.