Letrozole and Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Postmenopausal Participants With Estrogen or Progesterone Positive Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well letrozole and imatinib mesylate work in treating postmenopausal participants with estrogen or progesterone positive breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Letrozole is an antihormonal drug used in the standard treatment of hormonal sensitive breast cancer. Imatinib mesylate is a drug that binds to certain proteins on the tumor cells and prevents them from further growth. Imatinib mesylate is thought to prevent the potential resistance to letrozole, which may make the letrozole more effective. Giving letrozole and imatinib mesylate may work better in treating participants with breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Estrogen Receptor Positive|KIT Positive|PDGFR Positive|Postmenopausal|Progesterone Receptor Positive|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Imatinib Mesylate|DRUG: Letrozole
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Among participants with CR or PR as the best overall response, duration of response (DOR) was defined as the time from which measurement criteria were met for CR or PR until the date of progression. Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from study enrollment to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PFS data were censored at the time of removal from study. Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from study registration to death from any cause. Information on vital status was collected following study completion through July 23, 2018 and was used in the determination of OS. Among patients with SD as the best overall response, duration of SD was defined as the time from study enrollment to disease progression or removal from study., From the registration until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, or withdraw of study consent, whichever occurred first assessed up to 182 months|Overall Survival of Participants, This sample size would provide an estimate of the objective response rate (ORR) 95% confidence intervals for the ORR and CBR were calculated using the exact binomial method. Among patients with CR or PR as the best overall response, duration of response (DOR) was defined as the time from which measurement criteria were met for CR or PR until the date of progression. Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the time from study enrollment to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PFS data were censored at the time of removal from study. Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from study registration to death from any cause. Information on vital status was collected following study completion through July 23, 2018 and was used in the determination of OS. Among patients with SD as the best overall response, duration of SD was defined as the time from study enrollment to disease progression or removal from study., From the registration until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, or withdraw of study consent, whichever occurred first assessed up to 182 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of letrozole plus imatinib mesylate in patients with estrogen receptor (ER) and or progesterone receptor (PgR) positive metastatic breast cancer.

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of letrozole plus imatinib mesylate in patients with metastatic breast cancer.

III. To determine the time to disease progression and overall survival in patients with metastatic breast cancer who are treated with letrozole plus imatinib mesylate.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive imatinib mesylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and letrozole PO once daily (QD) for 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 1 and 4 weeks and at 2, 4, 6, 9, and 12 months.