Diagnosis and Staging of Neuroendocrine Tumors (NETs) Utilizing 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT Scan
The primary goal of the analysis is to estimate the diagnostic accuracy of Gallium 68 (68Ga) -DOTATOC PET/CT for detecting neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) compared to conventional imaging techniques such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Computerized Tomography (CT). Participants with histologically and/or clinically confirmed and/or suspected NET will be enrolled.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: 68Ga-DOTATOC
Sensitivity to Correctly Diagnose NET, Sensitivity to detect NET will be assessed and compared with conventional imaging modality. Sensitivity is the ability of an agent to indicate the presence and location of NET. The ability of 68Ga-DOTATOC to localize more effectively to somatostatin receptors and the exquisite spatial resolution of PET/CT should make easier detection of primary and metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and allow better measurement of tumor burden. Sensitivity is the percentage of accurately diagnosed NET cases. All participants underwent conventional imaging with either Computerized Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) as standard care prior to 68Ga-DOTATOC imaging., During imaging process ( approximately 120 minutes)
Specificity to Detect True Negative, A tumor is an abnormal growth of cells which can be malignant or not. NET tumors secrete hormones that will disrupt the normal ecology of the body. 68Ga-DOTATOC is extremely sensitive and specific to the receptors expressed by NET. These attributes are unique to 68Ga-DOTATOC and makes it the only imagining technique that can determine whether or not lesions detected by conventional imaging is due to NET involvement. 68Ga-DOTATOC is able to exclude disease involvement in lesions detected on CT/MRI; this ability to exclude disease involvement is called Specificity. The reported values indicate the specificity of 68Ga-DOTATOC, which is the percentage of tumors detected by conventional imagining that 68Ga-DOTATOC correctly determined were not due to NET involvement (i.e. identifying true negative for NET)., During imaging process ( approximately 120 minutes)
This is a prospective, Phase 2, single center study of participants with Neuroendocrine Tumors (NETs). Study participants will receive 68Ga-DOTATOC. DOTATOC is a somatostatin analogue that localizes on the somatostatin receptors expressed by NETs and is attached to a radioactive material called Gallium 68. Participants will undergo a PET/CT imaging study to investigate 68Ga-DOTATOC's suitability as a positron emission tomography (PET) imaging agent for NETs. The radiation (imaging) dose will be 111-185 megabecquerel (MBq) (3 - 5 mCi) ± 25%. All doses after labeling will be presented in buffered solution for intravenous injection. Imaging will start 90 ±30 minutes after injection.

Sensitivity and specificity of this imaging technique will be compared with those of conventional imaging modality including CT, MRI and In-111 Octreoscan performed within 6-12 months before or after PET/CT.