Nivolumab in Treating Patients With Persistent, Recurrent, or Metastatic Cervical Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well nivolumab works in treating patients with cervical cancer that has grown, come back, or spread to other places in the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may block tumor growth in different ways by targeting certain cells.
Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Cervical Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma|Stage IV Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Objective Tumor Response as Assessed by RECIST 1.1 Criteria, Proportion of participants with objective tumor response. Objective tumor response is defined as complete or partial tumor response assessed by RECIST 1.1., The average of study treatment time was 3.8 months.|Adverse Events (Grade 3 or Higher) During Treatment Period as Assessed by CTCAE Version 4, Number of participants with a maximum grade of 3 or higher during treatment period. Adverse events are graded and categorized using CTCAE v4.0., Within 100 days of last protocol treatment
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is the period of time from study entry to time of disease progression, death or date of last contact, whichever occurs first. Progression is assessed by RECIST 1.1., Time from study entry to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, up to 5 years of follow-up.|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., Time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact, up to 5 years of follow-up
Tumor Expressions of PD-1 and PD-L1 in Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes and Cervical Cancer Cells, Spearman's correlation coefficient will be used to explore the associations of tumor expressions of PD-L1, PD-1 and other interested biomarkers with tumor response. Cox proportional hazards (PH) model will be utilized to evaluate the associations of these tumor expressions with PFS and OS. These expressions may also be dichotomized into high versus low values (cut at the median). Log-rank tests will be used to assess the associations of these dichotomized tumor expressions with PFS and OS. The corresponding hazard rations will be estimated by Cox PH models., Up to 5 years|Immune Infiltration Related Biomarkers (i.e., CD4+, CD8+, FoxP3) in Tumor Specimens, Immune infiltration related biomarkers (i.e., CD4+, CD8+, FoxP3) in tumor specimens will be associated with objective tumor response, PFS and OS in nivolumab-treated patients., Up to 5 years|Change in the Immune Response to HPV 16/18/31/35/45 E7 Antigen in Peripheral Blood Lymphocytes and Serum, Wilcoxon signed rank test (for interval or ordinal data) or McNemar's test (for binary data) may be utilized to examine whether the study treatment will change immune response to HPV 16/18/31/35/45 E7 antigen in peripheral blood lymphocytes and serum by changes in the measures of pre- and post-treatment immune response to HPV 16/18/31/35/45 E7., Baseline to up to 5 years|Change in the CTC Count, Change in the CTC count and whether the CTC count is associated with objective response, PFS and OS in nivolumab-treated patients will be evaluated., Baseline to up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the antitumor activity (proportion of objective response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1 criteria) of nivolumab with objective tumor response in patients with persistent, recurrent or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix.

II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of nivolumab as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) in patients with persistent, recurrent or metastatic carcinoma of the cervix.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the duration of progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To systematically evaluate programmed cell death (PD)-1 and B7 homolog 1 (B7-H1) (i.e., PD-1 ligand) expression in tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and cervical cancer cells and explore their correlations with objective response, PFS, and OS in nivolumab-treated patients with PD-1 and B7-H1 scoring results.

II. To explore the composition of immune infiltrates in tumor specimens/biopsies from primary and/or metastatic/recurrent sites with selected markers including (but not limited) to cluster of differentiation (CD)4+, CD8+, forkhead box P3 (FoxP3), CD25, lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3), T cell immunoglobulin mucin-3 (TIM-3), and inducible T-cell co-stimulator (ICOS) and their correlations to objective response, PFS and OS in nivolumab-treated patients.

III. To evaluate human papillomavirus (HPV) status and to explore the changes of pre- and post-immune therapy responses to HPV16/18/31/35/45 E7 antigens in patients peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) and serum using proliferative and interferon (IFN)-gamma enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) (cellular immunity) and serological (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay \[ELISA\]) assays.

IV. To explore the levels of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) pre-treatment and at 8 and 12 weeks and their association with patient outcome.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over approximately 60 minutes every 2 weeks for a maximum of 46 doses over 92 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.