A Phase II Study of Neoadjuvant Trastuzumab+Docetaxel+NPLD+/-Bevacizumab in Her2-pos. Early Breast Cancer
Multicenter randomised phase II study of neoadjuvant therapy in HER2 positive early breast cancer. Primary aim is to evaluate the cardiac toxicity of the combined treatment (trastuzumab, docetaxel, bevacizumab, NPLD) in comparison to the standard therapy.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab, Docetaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab, Docetaxel, Bevacizumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab+Docetaxel+NPLD|DRUG: Trastuzumab+Docetaxel+NPLD+Bevacizumab
Cardiac toxicity, to evaluate the cardiac toxicity of the combination trastuzumab+docetaxel+bevacizumab and trastuzumab+docetaxel+NPLD +/- bevacizumab in comparison to the standard therapy, trastuzumab+docetaxel using a composite endpoint appearing between day 1 of cycle 1 and day 28 after the day of final surgery., between day 1 of cycle 1 and day 28 after the day of final surgery
Pathological complete response (ypCR), ypCR defined as absence of invasive tumor at time of final surgery, up to 22 weeks|Total pathological complete response (ytpCR), ytpCR defined as absence of invasive tumor and tumor cells in the breast and the axillar lymphnodes (ypT0 or yDCIS and ypN=0), up to 22 weeks|Overall clinical response rate (cORR), cORR defined as the percentage of patients with either a complete clinical response (cCR) or a partial clinical response (cPR), but no ypCR, up to 22 weeks|Safety evaluation according to patients numbers of AEs, SAEs, lab test abnormalities, cardiac assessment, clinical evaluation, Safety (AEs, SAEs, lab test abnormalities, cardiac assessment, clinical evaluation)of the combination trastuzumab and docetaxel with bevacizumab and trastuzumab, docetaxel, and NPLD plus/minus bevacizumab at the time of final surgery, up to 22 weeks
The target study population consists of male and female pre- and postmenopausal patients with HER2-positive, adenocarcinoma of the breast (except inflammatory breast cancer, T4d) scheduled to receive neoadjuvant cytotoxic treatment.

Patients must have pathologically confirmed breast cancer with histologically confirmed HER2 over-expression. At screening, patients must have an adequate left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF); an ECOG performance status of 0 or 1; adequate liver, renal and bone marrow function; and be free of other serious diseases that could affect protocol compliance or interpretation of results.

Patients should not be at increased risk of GI perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, wound healing complications, thromboembolism or hemorrhage. Patients must not have had another primary malignancy that could affect compliance with the protocol or interpretation of results. Patients with central nervous system (CNS) metastases are excluded. Pregnant or lactating females are excluded. Patients with hypertension (\>150 mmHG systolic or \>100 mmHG diastolic) and patients with a history of GI perforation, abdominal fistula or intra-abdominal abscess within 6 months of study entry are excluded.

Full anticoagulation therapy at study entry is allowed as long as the patient has been on a stable level of anticoagulants for at least 2 weeks at the time of study treatment start.