Colonoscopy Screening Using a Novel Slim Colonoscope - a Randomized Controlled Trial
The purpose of this study is to compare the performance of a new prototype colonoscope with a standard colonoscope used world-wide today. The prototype colonoscope is more flaccid with a smaller diameter than the standard colonoscope. The hypothesis to be tested is that the prototype will improve negotiation of sharp bends and inflict less discomfort or pain to the patient. Both colonoscopes are manufactured by the same company.
Colorectal Cancer|Adenomas
DEVICE: Olympus PCF-Y0014-L|DEVICE: Standard colonoscope
Patients´ evaluation of pain and discomfort, Analysis of validated feed-back questionnaires to be filled in on the day after the proceudre by the trial participants., 24 hours
Time used to reach the caecum, The time used to reach the caecum will be recorded with a stop watch during the procedure., 1 hour|Need for sedation/analgesics during the colonoscopy procedure, If sedation/analgesics is administered during the colonoscopy procedure, the name of the agent, dose and route of administration will be recorded immediately., 1 hour|Need to change to a different colonoscope to complete the procedure, If the colonoscopist decides to change to a different colonoscope during the procedure, the reason is recorded immediately after the procedure. The number of procedures where there is a change of colonoscope will be recorded., 10 minutes|Caecum intubation rate, The colonic segment reached during each colonoscopy is recorded immediately following the procedure. Caecal intubation rate describes the number of complete colonoscopies., 30 minutes
The purpose of this study is to compare the performance of a new prototype colonoscope with a standard colonoscope used world-wide today. The prototype colonoscope is more flaccid with a smaller diameter than the standard colonoscope. The hypothesis to be tested is that the prototype will improve negotiation of sharp bends and inflict less discomfort or pain to the patient. Both colonoscopes are manufactured by the same company.