Study of TAK-228 In Patients With Previously Treated Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
This research study is investigating a drug as a possible treatment for metastatic renal cell carcinoma. The intervention involved in this study is TAK-228.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: TAK-228
Best Overall Response Rate, The best overall response rate is the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best response recorded on treatment based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1).

CR and PR must meet the following lesion criteria without having any new lesions as well:

Target Lesion:

(CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

(PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Non-Target Lesion:

(CR): Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis).

Non-CR/Non-Progressive Disease: Persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits. Must have PR in target lesion., Imaging assessments occurred every eight weeks (2 cycles) for response evaluation. The median number of cycles administered was 2 (range <1-15), thus participants were assessed up to ~14 months.
Median Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) was defined as time from treatment initiation to radiographic progression, clinical progression or death from any cause, or it was censored at the date of last disease evaluation if an event had not occurred. Median PFS was estimated from the Kaplan Meier methodology.

Radiographic progression is defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria 1.1 as follows:

- \>20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including baseline if it's the smallest).

OR

-Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Participants followed for up to 14 months|Median Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from treatment initiation to death from any cause or censored at the time of last follow-up for surviving patients. Median overall survival was estimated using the Kaplan Meier methodology., Participants were follow for up to ~27 months|Percentage of Participants With Any Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-related Adverse Events, Toxicity was assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Treatment related adverse events were those that were deemed as "Definitely", "Probably" and "Possibly" related to the study treatment., Adverse events are measured continuously on treatment and up to thirty days after going off treatment (up to ~15 months).
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved TAK-228 as a treatment for any disease but it is being investigated as a treatment for advanced solid tumors, blood disorders, and inflammatory diseases. TAK-228 works to inhibit or interfere with cellular functions involved in cell growth and survival. TAK-228 specifically targets a type of protein that can make chemicals that trigger cell growth, including cancer cell growth. This protein may also cause cells to produce proteins that trigger the development of new blood vessels. Cancers need new blood vessels in order to grow. In some types of cancer, this type of protein (mTOR) is switched on, and it makes the cancer cells grow and produce new blood vessels. mTOR blockers (inhibitors) are a newer type of cancer growth blocker that can stop the growth of some types of cancer.

Researchers hope to learn how participants with previously treated mRCC will respond to treatment with TAK-228. Other goals of this study include assessing the types of side effects associated TAK-228 and whether there is a relationship between certain genetic mutations (changes to your DNA) and participant responses to the drug.