PIPAC for the Treatment of Colorectal Peritoneal Metastases
This study would like to assess the efficacy of pressurised intraperitoneal aerosol chemotherapy (PIPAC). This technique delivers chemotherapy directly into the abdomen via a less invasive laparoscopic or 'keyhole' form of surgery. This type of chemotherapy takes the form of an aerosol, similar to the spray of a deodorant for example. The aerosol is administered into the abdomen under pressure, pushing the chemotherapy deeper into the tissues and cancer. This approach does not involve any surgical removal of the cancer.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Peritoneal Metastases
PROCEDURE: Pressurised Intraperitoneal Aerosol Chemotherapy (PIPAC)
Progression free survival assessed by laparoscopy and cross sectional imaging, 2 year follow up or until death
Quality of life assessments - QLQ-C30 questionnaire, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30 Verison 3). Range 0-100. A high score for a functional scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning whereas a high score for a symptom scale or item represents a high level of symptomatology or problems., Repeated 6-8 weekly before each PIPAC treatment. Trend correlated over period of trial until end of September 2021 and reported thereafter|Serious CTCAE adverse events / operative complications related to PIPAC, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). Grade 1-5 with higher indicating more severe., CTCAE assessed following each PIPAC treatment 6-8 weekly and 90 day period thereafter. Will be fully reported at end of trial September 2021, but any Grades 3, 4 and 5 will be notified contemporaneously|PIPAC related safety regulation breaches / adverse events in theatre, Assessed following each PIPAC treatment 6-8 weekly. Ultimately reported at end of trial September 2021
This study aims to assess the efficacy of a novel intervention for advanced colorectal cancers with peritoneal metastases (i.e. cancers of the colon or rectum which have spread to the internal lining of the abdomen).

Patients diagnosed with peritoneal metastases usually first undertake a period of neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy prior to consideration of cytoreductive surgery and subsequent hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (CRS-HIPEC). If the extent of peritoneal disease remains too significant then CRS-HIPEC is contraindicated.

Not all patients are suitable for cytoreductive surgery and subsequent hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (CRS-HIPEC). CRS-HIPEC involves a large cut down the length of the abdomen, surgery to cut away as many of the structures affected by cancer as possible then the bathing the abdomen in heated chemotherapy. This is associated with a considerable risk of complications and a not insignificant risk of death. As such there is a significant unmet need for less invasive effective treatments for patients with extensive colorectal peritoneal metastases (CPM).

This study would like to assess the efficacy of pressurised intraperitoneal aerosol chemotherapy (PIPAC). This technique delivers chemotherapy directly into the abdomen via a less invasive laparoscopic or 'keyhole' form of surgery. This type of chemotherapy takes the form of an aerosol, similar to the spray of a deodorant for example. The aerosol is administered into the abdomen under pressure, pushing the chemotherapy deeper into the tissues and cancer. This approach does not involve any surgical removal of the cancer.

It is an additional treatment to the standard intravenous or oral chemotherapy which would otherwise be administered in isolation for the selected patients. PIPAC would be administered across multiple sessions assuming no disease progression was identified. It can be used in patients undertaking neo-adjuvant systemic chemotherapy before CRS- HIPEC or used throughout treatment for those patients deemed not suitable for CRS-HIPEC.