A Single-arm Study of Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, and Nab-Paclitaxel as Neoadjuvant Therapy for Resectable Oncologically High-Risk IHCC in Korea
1. Phase of Development: II
2. Patient Population: Resectable Oncologically High-Risk Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
3. Estimated Number of Patients: 34 patients
4. Primary Objective: To assess the resetability of neoadjuvant chemotherapy including gemcitabine, cisplatin, and nab-paclitaxel for resectable oncologically high-risk intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma that is treated with surgical resection. Thus, the primary aim is to increase R0 resection rate via completion of all treatment
5. Secondary Objectives:

1) To assess the radiological response rate according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 2) To determine the overall resection rate 3) To determine recurrence-free survival (RFS) 4) To identify patients' overall survival (OS) rate. 5) Saftey and tolerability 6.Exploratory Endpoint : QoL analysis via EORTC QLO C-30
Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, and Nab-Paclitaxe
Increased rate of RO resection, 16weeks
the radiological response rate, To assess the radiological response rate according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, 8weeks
This is a multi-institution, open label phase II study designed to investigate the feasibility of gemcitabine/cisplatin/nab-paclitaxel as a neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy for patients with reseactable oncologically high-risk IHCCA. This study will enroll up to 34 patients from all participating institutions with an accrual rate of 2 patients per month.

This will be an open-label, single arm study with each cycle equal to 21 days. All three drugs will be administered intravenously on day 1 and day 8 of each cycle. Dosing will be calculated using body surface area (BSA) based on the actual weight of the patient at each visit. Nab-Paclitaxel will be given at 100 mg/m2, followed by cisplatin at 25 mg/m2 and then gemcitabine at 800 mg/m2 for 2 weeks in a row followed by a week of rest. Patients will receive 4 cycles of neoadjuvant systemic chemotherapy. Restaging will be done after every 2 cycles (+/- 1 week) by radiological imaging. If radiological scans demonstrate stable disease or partial or complete tumor response and the tumor remains resectable, surgery will be performed. For patients with radiological scans that document disease progression during the study, treatment will be discontinued off the protocol and will not be evaluable for other secondary endpoints. Resection will be performed per standard of care and will include a portal lymphadenectomy for all cases. Objective evidence of recurrent disease after resection will be recorded at the time of recurrence. Patients will be followed for overall survival endpoint as well.