Comparing the Efficacy of Nab-PH+Pyrrolitinib and TCbHP in the Neoadjuvant Treatment of HER2 Positive BC
At present, the incidence rate of breast cancer has exceeded that of lung cancer, becoming the largest cancer in the world. HER2 overexpression breast cancer accounts for about 20%\~30% of all breast cancer patients. HER2 is an important prognostic indicator and therapeutic target for breast cancer. Targeted therapy for HER2 protein is the core treatment of this type of breast cancer. Previous studies have confirmed that TKI drugs can reverse the resistance of large molecule monoclonal antibodies to a certain extent; Moreover, due to the complementarity of therapeutic targets, monoclonal antibodies are associated with TKI Drugs have synergistic effects. TCbHP is one of the preferred neoadjuvant chemotherapy schemes recommended by NCCN guidelines for HER2 positive breast cancer, but its incidence of adverse reactions such as vomiting, diarrhea, anemia, thrombocytopenia is significantly higher than that of the scheme without platinum. In the GeparOcto study and Geparsixto study, based on anthracycline+purple shirt+double target, the addition of carboplatin did not further improve the PCR rate of HER2 positive breast cancer neoadjuvant therapy. GeparSepto research showed that compared to the solvent based paclitaxel group, albumin paclitaxel increased the pCR rate by 8.2% and the IDFS by 7.3%. In the CA024 study, compared to docetaxel, albumin paclitaxel also significantly increased ORR and PFS. In the study by Lavasani SM et al., the neoadjuvant therapy of albumin paclitaxel combined with topiramate achieved a PCR rate of 64%. Therefore, we assume that the new adjuvant treatment scheme of Nab PH+pyrrolitinib can not be inferior to the efficacy of TCbHP, and has a lower incidence of adverse reactions, which may become a new adjuvant treatment option for HER2 positive breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer|HER2-positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Albumin paclitaxel+trastuzumab+pyrrolitinib|DRUG: Docetaxel+Carboplatin+trastuzumab+Parstuzumab
Pathological complete response rate (pCR rate), After neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery, the resected specimen (breast + axilla) was free of any invasive cancer (ie, ypT0/is, ypN0), immediately after the intervention
Event-Free Survival (EFS), EFS was defined as the time from randomization to any of the following events: disease progression during neoadjuvant therapy, local or distant recurrence, second primary malignancy (breast or other cancer), or death from any cause., 5-10 years after surgery|DFS, Disease-free Survival,From the date of surgery to the first local, regional, contralateral or distant recurrence, and death from any cause, 5-10 years after surgery|Distant Disease Free Survival (DDFS), DDFS is defined as the time from surgery to distant recurrence or death from any cause, 5-10 years after surgery|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the number of target lesion responders as assessed by MRI, Preoperative|number of adverse events, Evaluate the nature, incidence and severity of chemotherapy adverse events according to CTCAE 5.0, during each cycle of chemotherapy (21 days as 1 cycle)
Multiple gene testing, Exploring Multiple Gene Prediction Models for PCR Influencing Different Neoadjuvant Therapy Schemes, immediately after surgery
At present, the incidence rate of breast cancer has exceeded that of lung cancer, becoming the largest cancer in the world. HER2 overexpression breast cancer accounts for about 20%\~30% of all breast cancer patients. HER2 is an important prognostic indicator and therapeutic target for breast cancer. Targeted therapy for HER2 protein is the core treatment of this type of breast cancer. Previous studies have confirmed that TKI drugs can reverse the resistance of large molecule monoclonal antibodies to a certain extent; Moreover, due to the complementarity of therapeutic targets, monoclonal antibodies are associated with TKI Drugs have synergistic effects. TCbHP is one of the preferred neoadjuvant chemotherapy schemes recommended by NCCN guidelines for HER2 positive breast cancer, but its incidence of adverse reactions such as vomiting, diarrhea, anemia, thrombocytopenia is significantly higher than that of the scheme without platinum. In the GeparOcto study and Geparsixto study, based on anthracycline+purple shirt+double target, the addition of carboplatin did not further improve the PCR rate of HER2 positive breast cancer neoadjuvant therapy. GeparSepto research showed that compared to the solvent based paclitaxel group, albumin paclitaxel increased the pCR rate by 8.2% and the IDFS by 7.3%. In the CA024 study, compared to docetaxel, albumin paclitaxel also significantly increased ORR and PFS. In the study by Lavasani SM et al., the neoadjuvant therapy of albumin paclitaxel combined with topiramate achieved a PCR rate of 64%. Therefore, we assume that the new adjuvant treatment scheme of Nab PH+pyrrolitinib can not be inferior to the efficacy of TCbHP, and has a lower incidence of adverse reactions, which may become a new adjuvant treatment option for HER2 positive breast cancer patients. This study aims to explore the efficacy and safety of TCbHP \* 6 and Nab-PH+pyrrolitinib \* 6 as two new adjuvant treatment regimens in HER2 positive patients through a randomized controlled trial.