[18F]FMISO PET/CT After Transcatheter Arterial Embolization in Imaging Tumors in Patients With Liver Cancer
This clinical trial studies how well 18F-fluoromisonidazole (\[18F\]FMISO) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) works after transcatheter arterial embolization in imaging tumors in patients with liver cancer. Transcatheter arterial embolization blocks blood flow to tumor cells by inserting tiny foreign particles into an artery near the tumor. \[18F\]FMISO is a type of radioimaging agent that binds to large molecules in tumor cells that have a low level of oxygen, and the radiation given off by \[18F\]FMISO is picked up by a PET scan and this may help researchers learn whether changes occur in the tumors after treatment, which can help decide how well the treatment worked earlier than is currently possible
Adult Liver Carcinoma|Liver Cirrhosis
DRUG: 18F-Fluoromisonidazole|PROCEDURE: Arterial Embolization|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Computed Tomography|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Positron Emission Tomography
Post-treatment Maximum Standardized Uptake Value (SUVmax) in Tumor and Normal Tissue, All participants undergo transcatheter arterial embolization (TACE) and 18F-fluoromisonidazole (18F-FMISO) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scans were conducted. Maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) were determined at the tumor lesion and in normal tissue, represented by liver. The variability of 18F-FMISO uptake in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumors post-TACE was assessed as the ratio of the SUVmax as observed in the tumor vs liver (tumor-to-liver ratio, TLR). The outcome is reported as the mean TLR, with standard deviation., 24 hours
Maximum Standardized Uptake Value (SUVmax) at Lesion Sites With and Without Tumor Recurrence, Follow-up 18F-fluoromisonidazole (18F-FMISO) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scans were to be conducted within 6 months or at the time of tumor recurrence. Maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) were determined at the tumor lesion and in normal tissue, represented by liver. The variability of 18F-FMISO uptake at the hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumor lesion site post-TACE was assessed as the mean difference in the ratio of the SUVmax as observed in the tumor vs liver (tumor-to-liver ratio, TLR), between lesions that recurred, and those that did not. The outcome is reported as the mean TLR, with standard deviation., Up to 6 months|Adverse Events Related to 18F-fluoromisonidazole (18F-FMISO), Toxicity to 18F-fluoromisonidazole (18F-FMISO) was assessed by the number of adverse events that occurred within 18 hours of administration (about 10 half-lives), that were also unanticipated and related to 18F-FMISO. The outcome is reported as the number of adverse events that were unanticipated and related to 18F-FMISO, a number without dispersion., 18 hours
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the variability of 18F FMISO uptake in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumors compared to normal liver after transcatheter arterial embolization by determining the difference in the mean of the maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) and tumor-to-liver ratio (TLR) of a region of normal liver and of up to 5 index tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine if areas of tumor recurrence as determined by CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) within a 6 month period after transcatheter arterial embolization show evidence of increased 18F FMISO labeling on the initial post treatment 18F FMISO PET/CT.

II. Determine the variability in SUVmax and TLR of untreated (non embolized) HCC lesions compared to normal liver by determining the difference in the mean of the SUVmax and TLR of normal liver and tumor.

III. Determine any toxicities related to \[18F\]FMISO use for PET/CT.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo transcatheter arterial embolization. Patients also receive 18F-fluoromisonidazole intravenously (IV) and undergo PET/CT scans within 4 weeks prior to embolization treatment and in the 20 hours following completion of treatment.

After completion of treatment, patients are followed up at 2 and 3 months.