Screening for Early Gastric Cancer in Shaanxi Province
This study collect the relevant data of local residents over 20 years old in 11 regions of Shaanxi Province, The basic information of the subjects was collected by filling in the questionnaire, and serum helicobacter pylori antibody detection was completed at the same time. The expert group determined the high-risk population of gastric cancer after comprehensive evaluation. All the high-risk population of gastric cancer without contraindications underwent electronic gastroscopy in the designated hospital after signing the informed consent. By collecting and analyzing data, early gastric cancer screening was completed and a new gastric cancer risk assessment model was established to evaluate the prevalence of dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease and precancerous lesions in the natural population of Shaanxi Province, as well as helicobacter pylori infection, radical treatment and recurrence rate.
Early Gastric Cancer
the detection rate of early gastric cancer, Patients at high risk of gastric cancer were assessed by questionnaire and Hp test results, and then underwent gastroscopy.Then analyse the detection rate of early gastric cancer., 2020.10.01-2026.10.01
the prevalence of dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease and precancerous lesions in the natural population of Shaanxi Province, as well as the prevalence of helicobacter pylori infection, radical treatment and recurrence rate., Basic information, Hp antibody detection results and gastroscopy results were collected,and then analyse the prevalence of dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease and precancerous lesions in the natural population of Shaanxi Province, as well as the prevalence of helicobacter pylori infection, radical treatment and recurrence rate., 2020.10.01-2026.10.01
From October 2020 to October 2026, after obtaining the informed consent of local residents over 20 years old in 11 regions of Shaanxi Province, the subjects' social demographic characteristics, living and eating habits, and previous diseases were collected by filling in questionnaires, and serum helicobacter pylori antibody was detected at the same time. After comprehensive assessment by the expert group, the high-risk population of gastric cancer was determined. All high-risk population of gastric cancer without contraindications underwent electronic gastroscopy in designated hospitals after signing informed consent. By collecting and analyzing data, early gastric cancer screening was completed and a new gastric cancer risk assessment model was established to evaluate the prevalence of dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease and precancerous lesions in the natural population of Shaanxi Province, as well as helicobacter pylori infection, radical treatment and recurrence rate. In this project, the research group was responsible for formulating the plan, designing the questionnaire, and conducting quality control and grass-roots guidance tour. Guanghua Science and Technology Foundation provided public welfare assistance, and distributed and collected questionnaires with the assistance of grass-roots clinics. Finally, the research group sorted out and analyzed the data.