Effect of General Anesthesia and Mechanical Ventilation on Plasma Metabolite in Patient With Colorectal Cancer Resection
As a newly developed subject, metabolomics can detect accurately and quantitatively small molecule metabolites such as proteins, carbohydrates and lipids from plasma, tissue and even single cell, which aims to analyze systemic dynamic change during physiological and pathological processes, and thus reveals certain reactions that whole organism responds to specific stimulation.

Colorectal cancer is one of common gastrointestinal tumors, whose morbidity rate tends to increase in recent years for modern diet and life style, and colectomy serves as one standard treatment for it. Under total stimulation of surgical operation, general anesthesia and mechanical ventilation, a series of stress reactions happen complicatedly to colorectal patients during anesthesia-ventilation process. Without timely recognition and management of adverse reactions, side effects like hypoxemia, hemorrhage, inflammation, and even death will happen intraoperatively or postoperatively.

With different metabolomics methods applied to collect, detect and analyze blood samples, metabolomics provides an innovatory approach to elucidate systemic response during anesthesia-colectomy process with multi-factors included. By analyzing and comparing dramatic alteration of small molecule metabolites in colorectal cancer patients' or healthy controls' plasma in this project, data can reflect the influence of certain disease (colorectal cancer), anesthetics and mechanical ventilation on colorectal patients with colectomy, which is helpful for prevention and treatment of intraoperative and postoperative complications.
Metabolomics
OTHER: colectomy, GA and MV
metabolomics, Thaw Frozen plasma, add methanol and shake. Isolate supernatant after centrifugation. Employ Globle LC-Q-TOF-MS profiling to analyze metabolites of plasma via an Agilent-1200 LC system, coupled with an electrospray Ionization source and an Agilent-6520 Q-TOF mass spectrometry. Utilize Agilent's Mass Hunter Qualitative Analysis Software to process the MS spectra for peak detection, and generate a list detected peak intensities with the retention time-m/z data pairs as identiers. Process integrated raw RHPLC-Q-TOF-MS data with Agilent Mass Hunter Qualitative Analysis and Mass Profiler software. Optimize and choose parameters as follows: the range of m/z values from 80 to 100, and peak filters set to centroid height with \> 100 counts, and compound filters set the base peak to \> 1000 counts. MHD files will be create, containing compound IDs, and further processing will be performed with Mass Profiler software, which aligns mass features across multiple LC-MS data files., Outcome measure will be assessed right after all samples are collected, which is expected to on May 5, 2017, and MHD files containing compound IDs, m/z values and so on will be reported about 10 days later.
Nowadays, more and more attention are paid to system biology and its relative techniques, such as gene sequencing，nuclear magnetic resonance， mass spectrometry and so on. As a newly developed subject, metabolomics can detect accurately and quantitatively small molecule metabolites such as proteins, carbohydrates and lipids from plasma, tissue and even single cell, which aims to analyze systemic dynamic change during physiological and pathological processes, and thus reveals certain reactions that whole organism responds to specific stimulation.

Colorectal cancer is one of common gastrointestinal tumors, whose morbidity rate tends to increase in recent years for modern diet and life style, and colectomy serves as one standard treatment for it. Under total stimulation of surgical operation, general anesthesia and mechanical ventilation, a series of stress reactions happen complicatedly to colorectal patients during anesthesia-ventilation process. Without timely recognition and management of adverse reactions, side effects like hypoxemia, hemorrhage, inflammation, and even death will happen intraoperatively or postoperatively.

With different metabolomics methods applied to collect, detect and analyze blood samples, metabolomics provides an innovatory approach to elucidate systemic response during anesthesia-colectomy process with multi-factors included. By analyzing and comparing dramatic alteration of small molecule metabolites in colorectal cancer patients' or healthy controls' plasma in this project, data can reflect the influence of certain disease (colorectal cancer), anesthetics and mechanical ventilation on colorectal patients with colectomy, which is helpful for prevention and treatment of intraoperative and postoperative complications.