Prostate Assessment with Restriction Spectrum Imaging (RSI) MRI
This single-center study will enroll 40 male participants to complete 2 diffusion magnetic resonance images within 30 days of each other.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Restricted Spectrum Magnetic Resonance Imagining
Detection of grade group ≥2 prostate cancer on histopathology, To determine an optimal quantitative dMRI technique for csPCa detection, we will implement an expanded dMRI protocol that will permit exploration of six different approaches, each with published evidence of advantages over conventional ADC. Accuracy will be evaluated using histopathology as the gold standard., 30 days
Inter-scan reliability, Reliability is a critical feature of quantitative imaging biomarkers. Prostate MRI is known to vary with physiologic conditions, such as bowel activity, bowel/bladder filling, and recency of ejaculation(5). Patients planning to undergo prostatectomy (to permit whole-mount histopathology correlation) will be invited to consent to a second MRI scan on a different date, within approximately 30 days of the first scan (to avoid meaningful change in any tumor). The across-date reproducibility coefficient will be calculated for each metric, 30 days
Participants will undergo prostate MRI using a range of b-values and echo times. 40 participants will be invited to complete two such scans within 30 days of each other to evaluate reliability across time. Several advanced MRI models will be applied to the data, and the models will be assessed for accurate prediction of grade group ≥2 prostate cancer on histopathology, obtained through routine clinical care. We hypothesize that advanced, multi-compartment dMRI will yield a reliable, quantitative metric that is superior to standard ADC for detection of csPCa.

RSI is a multicompartment model of diffusion MRI that uses data acquired at multiple b-values to distinguish varied diffusion speeds (restricted intracellular, hindered extracellular, and approximately free diffusion). The relative contributions of each compartment are estimated for each voxel in the imaging field of view. RSI cellularity index is a normalized parameter reflecting the contribution of very slow diffusion that is associated with tumor cellularity.