Olaparib, Cediranib Maleate, and Standard Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well olaparib, cediranib maleate, and standard chemotherapy work in treating patients with small cell lung cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, cisplatin, and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Olaparib and cediranib maleate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Olaparib, cediranib maleate, and standard chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with small cell lung cancer.
Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cediranib|DRUG: Cediranib Maleate|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Olaparib
Median Progression-free Survival in Patients Who Receive Cediranib Maleate/Olaparib as Maintenance Therapy, Will be compared to those receiving standard therapy. will use the intention-to-treat framework in which all patients randomized are considered recipients of their randomized assignment, regardless of treatment actually received., From second randomization to documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 6 months
Overall Survival (OS) Rate, Additional sensitivity analyses will be conducted on OS to address the effect of potential crossover to olaparib/cediranib on overall survival estimates. These will include rank preserving structural failure time models., From initial randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of Adverse Events, Assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 2 years|Response Rate, Rates in each arm will be provided with exact 95% confidence intervals, and compared using the chi-squared test (or Fisher's exact test, as needed)., Up to 2 years
Blood-based Angiogenic and Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) Repair Biomarkers, Assessed by whole exome sequencing. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 2 years|Frequency of Genomic Aberrations, Will be assessed using McNemar's test and Fisher's exact test. More sophisticated analyses may include multivariable logistic regression modeling and/or competing risks analysis., Baseline up to 2 years|Change in Circulating Free DNA, Will be analyzed for association with patient demographics and/or disease characteristics using the Kruskal Wallis test., Baseline up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the addition of cediranib maleate (cediranib) plus olaparib as maintenance therapy, in patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) who have stable disease or better (non-progressive disease or non-PD) after initial therapy, leads to improved median progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is measured in months from the time of randomization to maintenance therapy (after completion of initial therapy), compared to standard therapy (no maintenance treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the impact of cediranib plus olaparib maintenance therapy on median overall survival (OS) in patients with SCLC who have non-PD after initial therapy.

II. To determine whether the addition of cediranib to cisplatin/carboplatin plus etoposide during initial therapy adds benefit to response rate, median PFS and median OS.

III. To assess safety and tolerability of the combination of cediranib plus olaparib during maintenance therapy.

IV. To evaluate potential biomarkers of clinical benefit to olaparib/cediranib combination, including tumor proteomic and genomic markers, and circulating levels of cytokines and angiogenic factors, that that may be associated with clinical benefit.

OUTLINE:

INITIAL THERAPY PHASE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes or cisplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and etoposide IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 2, and 3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive treatment as in Arm I and also receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients in Arm I who have stable disease, partial, or a complete response are randomized to receive maintenance therapy or no maintenance therapy. Patients in Arm II are assigned to receive maintenance therapy.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive cediranib maleate PO QD and olaparib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28.

NO MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients are eligible to crossover to receive treatment with cediranib maleate and olaparib upon disease progression at the treating investigator's discretion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-4 months for at least 1 year.