Evaluation of Xiaflex: Trial of Effectivenss iN Dupuytren's
This is a prospective, multi-centre, pragmatic randomized controlled trial to compare both the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of collagenase injections (CI) versus limited palmar fasciectomy (LPF) to determine if collagenase is a superior treatment in terms of improved quality of life and reducing recurrence of the disease without serious complications. Since collagenase injections are costly it is also important to know if this novel intervention is cost-effective from the patient, Ministry of Health and societal perspectives.
Dupuytren's Disease
DRUG: collagenase injection|PROCEDURE: limited palmar fasciectomy
Health-related Quality of Life (HRQL) Using the Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire (MHQ), Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire (MHQ). Converted to a score rated 0-100 (where higher scores represent better function)., 1 year
HRQL Measured With the Health Utility Index Mark 3 (HUI3) of Health, Health Utility Index Mark 3 (HUI3) of Health. The HUI3 is a generic multi-attribute health-status classification instrument composed of eight attributes or dimensions: vision, hearing, speech, ambulation, dexterity, emotion, cognition, and pain with five or six levels per attribute. Dimensions are combined to produce one health utility score. The HUI3 produces health utilities anchored at 0 (minimum) for equal to being dead and 1 (maximum) for perfect health., 1 year|HRQL Measured With the Unité Rhumatologique Des Affections de la Main (URAM), Unité Rhumatologique des Affections de la Main (URAM). The URAM is a disease-specific HRQL measure developed for Dupuytren's Disease (DD) and is composed of a 9-item patient-reported questionnaire. Each item is scored between 0 and 5 depending on the difficulty in performing that particular function with total scores for DD-associated disability ranging from 0 (best) to 45 (worst). High scores suggest high levels of disability and disturbance. The URAM scale is a 1-domain outcome measure postulated to be related to disability associated with DD., 1 year|HRQL Measured With the Southampton Dupuytren's Scoring Scheme (SDSS), The SDSS is disease-specific scoring system developed for Dupuytren's Disease (DD) with 5 domains, each relevant to DD and scored on a five-point scale (no problem, mild inconvenience, modest inconvenience, definitely troublesome, severe problem). The minimum score is 0 and maximum score is 20 with higher scores suggesting higher levels of disability., 1 year|Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY) Measured With the Health Utility Index Mark 3 (HUI3), QALY was calculated by multiplying the difference between quality of life, as measured by the HUI-3 score before and after the intervention by the remaining years of life of the average patient (i.e., life expectancy - patient's age). Life expectancy was set at 79 years for males, and 84 years for females. Higher QALYs represent improved (better) patient outcomes., 1 year|Recurrence Rates, Reccurence was measured as whether or not participants received a repeat diagnosis of Dupuytren's disease with loss of finger extension at the site of prior intervention and underwent palmar fasciectomy (following the collagenase injection or as a revision operation) after initial study treatment. The time horizon for recurrence was between 1-4 years post initial study treatment. Outcome was dichotomous (i.e., recurrence; yes or no)., 1-4 years|Loss of Extension MCP, Passive range of motion degree of extension was measured using a goniometer. Difference in degree, as measured by a goniometer, between the participant's resting maximum extension of the metacarpal-phalangeal joint, relative to a metacarpal-phalangeal joint at full extension (i.e., 0 degrees), 1 year|Loss of Extension PIP, Passive range of motion degree of extension was measured using a goniometer. Difference in degree, as measured by a goniometer, between the participant's resting maximum extension of the proximal inter-phalangeal joint, relative to a proximal inter-phalangeal joint at full extension (i.e., 0 degrees), 1 year|Loss of Extension DIP, Passive range of motion degree of extension was measured using a goniometer. Difference in degree, as measured by a goniometer, between the participant's resting maximum extension of the distal inter-phalangeal joint, relative to a distal inter-phalangeal joint at full extension (i.e., 0 degrees), 1 year
Limited palmar fasciectomy (LPF) and collagenase injection (CI) are the most common procedures to manage symptoms of Dupuytren's Disease. This randomized controlled trial (RCT) aimed to directly compare patient outcomes 12 months following CI and LPF. Twenty-two patients with Dupuytren's Disease were randomized to either LPF or CI. The primary outcome was health state measured by the Michigan Hand Questionnaire. Secondary outcomes were health status (The Health Utility Index-3), function (The Unité Rhumatologique des Affections de la Main and The Southampton Dupuytren's Scoring Scheme), and range of motion (ROM) of treated digits. Measurements were collected at baseline and 1-, 3-, 6-, and 12-months post-procedure.