Personalized Live-remote Exercise Training for Cancer Survivors
Background

Many people with cancer face ongoing problems from their disease and treatments, like fatigue, reduced physical fitness, feeling anxious or down, and neuropathy. While exercise might help with these problems, most studies did not focus on tailoring exercise to address these specific complaints. Exercise programs under supervision (like with a trainer) seem to work better, but barriers for following such sessions are travel distance and time. Therefore, following an exercise program at home with a trainer guiding via video (live-remote) might be a good solution. But, it is unclear how effective this remote exercise program is for cancer patients.

Goal of the study:

The main goal of this study is to assess the effectiveness of a personalized, live-remote exercise intervention for cancer survivors on quality of life and the patients' main complaint. The four complaints tackled in this study are: 1) fatigue, 2) reduced physical functioning, 3) anxiety and/or depressive symptoms, and 4) neuropathy.

Design of the study

In the LION study, 350 cancer patients will be randomly divided into the exercise group or control group. These patients all have at least one of these complaints: 1) fatigue, 2) reduced physical functioning, 3) anxiety and/or depressive symptoms, and/or 4) neuropathy. Patients cannot participate in the study if they are already very active.

The exercise group will start a 12-week exercise program right away, and the other group will wait for 12 weeks before starting. The exercise program consists of three sessions per week. Two sessions per week include aerobic training and strength training. These sessions will be followed by all patients; and aim to improve fitness and strength. The third session specifically aims at improvement of the main complaint, for example fatigue.

Participants will get an app and a fitness tracker to help them stay on track with their exercises. Furthermore, patients get information on the effects of exercise for cancer patients and why exercise is important for specific complaints.

Measurements

The main outcomes of this study are quality of life and the main side-effect of the patient. Other measurements include all kind of patient reported outcomes (like sleep problems and pain), physical fitness, muscle strength, balance, anthropometrics, and (inflammatory) markers in blood.

Conclusion:

This study investigates if personalized exercises done at home, with video guidance, can make cancer survivors feel better and manage their side effects more effectively.
Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise group
Health-Related Quality of Life, Measured with the summary scale of the EORTC QLQ-C30; min 0- max 100 points; higher scores mean better quality of life, Week 0 - Week 12|A standardized symptom score, per patient, based on the individual patient's main side-effect defined at baseline, Side-effect 1: Fatigue measured with EORTC QLQ-FA12. According to a standardization procedure the symptom score of all patients will be combined into one symptom score.., Week 0 - Week 12|A standardized symptom score, per patient, based on the individual patient's main side-effect defined at baseline, Side-effect 2: Anxiety and depressive symptoms measured with Patient Health Questionnaire Anxiety and Depression Scale (PHQ-ADS). According to a standardization procedure the symptom score of all patients will be combined into one symptom score., Week 0 - Week 12|A standardized symptom score, per patient, based on the individual patient's main side-effect defined at baseline, Side-effect 3: Physical functioning measured with EORTC QLQ-C30 physical function scale According to a standardization procedure the symptom score of all patients will be combined into one symptom score., Week 0 - Week 12|A standardized symptom score, per patient, based on the individual patient's main side-effect defined at baseline, Side-effect 4: CPIN measured with EORTC QLQ-CPIN20. According to a standardization procedure the symptom score of all patients will be combined into one symptom score., Week 0 - Week 12
Health-related quality of life, Domains of the EORTC QLQ-C30 (except summary score), Week 0 - Week 36|Fatigue, Cancer-Related fatigue measured with the EORTC-FA12, Week 0 - Week 36|Anxiety and Depression, Anxiety and depressive symptoms measured with the Patient Health Questionnaire Anxiety and Depression Scale (PHQ-ADS), Week 0 - Week 36|CIPN_1, Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy measured with EORTC QLQ-CIPN-20, Week 0 - Week 36|CIPN_2, 2 items of the Patient Reported Outcomes version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), Week 0 - Week 36|Sleep, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), 0-36 weeks|Pain prevalence and type, EORTC QLQ-SURV100, Week 0 - Week 36|Cognitive problems, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog), Week 0 - Week 36|Work limitations, Work Limitations Questionnaire (WLQ), Week 0 - Week 36|Body image, Body Image Scale (BIS), Week 0 - Week 36|Fear of cancer recurrence, EORTC QLQ-surv100, 0-36 weeks|Habitual physical activity, Modified Godin-Shephard Leisure-Time Physical Activity Questionnaire, Week 0 - Week 36|Aerobic capacity on bike, Steep ramp test, Week 0 - Week 24|Aerobic capacity on step, Chester step test, Week 0 - Week 24|Handgrip strength, Handgrip test, Week 0 - Week 24|Upper body muscle strength, Chest press, Week 0 - Week 24|Lower body muscle strength, Leg press, 0-24 weeks|Sit to stand test, 30 sec sit to stand test- function test, Week 0 - Week 24|Physical function, Time Up and Go (TUG) test, Week 0 - Week 24|Balance, Single leg stance test with open and closed eyes, Week 0 - Week 24|Physical activity, Measured with an activity tracker (Fitbit), 0-36 weeks|Blood pressure, Measured twice with blood pressure device, 0-24 weeks|Resting heart rate, Measured with blood pressure device, Week 0 - Week 24|Weight, Weight. in KG, Week 0 - Week 24|Height, Height in cm, Week 0 - Week 24|Waist circumference, Waist circumference in cm, Week 0 - Week 24|Hip circumference, Hip circumference in cm, Week 0 - Week 24|Body composition, Fat mass and fat free mass with bio-impedance - three centers, Week 0 - Week 24|Inflammatory state, The specific inflammatory markers (e.g., cytokines, interleukins) will be decided at the time-point of analyses to be able to include factors according to up-to-date insights and use state-of the art platforms; we will for example use the Olink PEA platform (Oncology and Inflammation Array), 0-12 weeks|Growth factors, The specific growth factors will be decided at the time-point of analyses to be able to include factors according to up-to-date insights and use state-of the art platforms ; we will for example use the Olink PEA platform (Oncology and Inflammation Array), 0-12 weeks|CRP, Blood cell count, Week 0 - Week 12|Hemoglobin, Blood cell count, 0-12 weeks|Leucocyte counts, Blood cell count, 0-12 weeks|Quality-adjusted life years, EuroQol-5D-5L, Week 0 - Week 36|Health-care, patient and family costs, Modified Medical Consumption Questionnaire (iMCQ), Week 0 - Week 36|Productivity losses, Modified Productivity Cost Questionnaire (iPCQ), Week 0 - Week 36|Exercise-related (serious) adverse events, Via CASTOR app before and after each session; asked at and at the study visits., Week 0 - Week 36
Participants experience of sensor-based guidance, Questionnaires - substudy control patients Cologne, Week 12- Week 24|Trainer experience of sensor-based guidance, Questionnaires - substudy control patients Cologne, Week 12- Week 24|Compliance sensor-based guidance, % of sessions that patients wear the sensor - substudy control patients Cologne, Week 12- Week 24|Technical feasibility of sensor-based guidance, % of successful live transfer of sensor data - substudy control patients Cologne, Week 12- Week 24|Aerobic capacity, Chester Step test - substudy live-remote testing, Week 12- Week 24|Upper body muscle strength, Push-up test - substudy live-remote testing, Week 12- Week 24|Lower body muscle strength, 30 sec sit-to stand test - substudy live-remote testing, Week 12- Week 24|Core muscle strength, Plank position holding time - substudy live-remote testing, Week 12- Week 24|Physical functioning, Time Up and Go (TUG) test - substudy live-remote testing, Week 12- Week 24|Balance, Single leg stance test with open and closed eyes - substudy live-remote testing, Week 12- Week 24|Socio-demographics, Self-designed questionnaire, baseline|Self-efficacy, General Self-Efficacy Scale, baseline|Social Support, Index of Sojourner Social Support (ISSS), baseline|Medical history, Interview, baseline|Concomitant diseases, Interview, Week 0- Week 36|Cancer + concomitant medication, Interview, Week 0- Week 36|Cancer characteristics, Interview, baseline|Cancer treatment history, Interview, baseline
SUMMARY

Rationale:

Many cancer patients suffer from long-term treatment-related side-effects like fatigue, low physical functioning, anxiety and/or depressive symptoms, and chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN). There is convincing evidence on the beneficial effects of general exercise interventions on these side-effects. However, studies to date generally fail to specifically screen for (long-term) side-effects at baseline and tailor the intervention to these specific side-effects, although larger exercise effects are observed in patients with a high symptom burden at baseline (e.g., with higher levels of fatigue). Larger effects of exercise are also observed for supervised exercise compared to unsupervised exercise. However, two of the most common barriers for attending and complying with supervised exercise are travel distance and time. An effective approach might be to provide live-remote supervision for exercise interventions. In this scenario, patients can receive guidance from a certified exercise specialist through a video-conferencing platform such as Zoom, while performing exercises within the comfort of their own homes. Currently, the effectiveness of live-remote exercise in cancer patients has not been established.

Objective:

The primary objective of the LION RCT is to assess the (cost-)effectiveness of a personalized, live-remote exercise intervention for cancer survivors on Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) and the participants' main, self-reported side-effect. The four side-effects targeted in this study are: 1) fatigue, 2) perceived low physical functioning in daily life, 3) anxiety and/or depressive symptoms, and 4) CIPN.

Study design:

The LION RCT is a randomized controlled trial with two study arms: an exercise group (12 weeks) and a wait list control group. A super umbrella design will be used, allowing us to evaluate four exercise modalities (i.e., exercise modules based on participants' main side-effect) in a wide variety of cancer survivors.

Study population:

For this study, 350 adult cancer survivors treated with systemic chemotherapy (≥ 12 weeks to 1 year after completion of primary treatment of invasive cancer with curative intent) will be recruited independent of their primary cancer diagnosis. Participants will have reported at least one of the following side-effects: fatigue, low physical functioning in daily life, anxiety and/or depressive symptoms, CIPN. Additionally, participants need to be relatively physically inactive, i.e., perform ≤210 minutes/week of moderate-to-vigorous leisure and sports activities.

Intervention:

The intervention consists of three live-remote exercise sessions per week. Participants randomized to the exercise group receive the intervention after the baseline visit and the wait list control participants after the 12-week follow-up visit. A modular approach will be used to tailor the intervention to each participant's specific main side-effect. Each participant will receive the same base module (twice a week) to address HRQOL and in addition one out of four specific modules (once a week) addressing their individual main side-effect. In addition to the live-remote training, participants will be provided with the LION app and an activity tracker (Fitbit) at the start of the intervention to support exercise beyond the supervised program, during holidays and after the end of the intervention. In addition to exercise, the intervention also has an educational component including information about general effects of exercise for cancer patients and why exercise is important for specific side-effects. We consider the provision of such education as an integral part of adequate exercise programming.

After the intervention period of 12 weeks, we follow the patients until 36 weeks. In this follow-up period, also two sub studies take place:

1. Sensor-based guidance sub study (only control patients from Cologne)
2. Live-remote physical fitness and function testing (in all control patients; all sites)