Copper 64Cu-DOTA-Daratumumab Positron Emission Tomography in Diagnosing Patients With Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This pilot phase I clinical trial studies how well copper 64Cu-DOTA-daratumumab positron emission tomography works in diagnosing patients with multiple myeloma that has come back. Diagnostic procedures, such as copper 64Cu-DOTA-daratumumab positron emission tomography, may help evaluate the extent of multiple myeloma in patients prior to the initiation of treatment and ultimately monitor disease status/response during and post treatment.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Plasma Cell Myeloma|Secondary Amyloidosis
BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|DRUG: Imaging Agent|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Incidence of adverse event, Will be graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03. Observed toxicities will be summarized, for all dose levels, in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study agent(s) and reversibility or outcome., Up to 7 days
Detection of lesions in the body, Will be determined by copper 64Cu-DOTA-daratumumab positron emission tomography, Up to 7 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety and tolerability of unlabeled daratumumab followed by 64Cu-DOTA-daratumumab positron emission tomography, at each dose level, by evaluation of toxicities including: type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Generate initial estimates of the biodistribution of the 64Cu-DOTA-daratumumab and the preferred dose of cold antibody.

II. Determine the dose of pre-administered unlabeled daratumumab that optimizes image quality of 64Cu-anti-CD38 (daratumumab)-NHS-DOTA.

III. Evaluate the sensitivity of 64Cu-anti-CD38 (daratumumab)-NHS-DOTA in detecting lesions compared to 18F fludeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scanning.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive daratumumab intravenously (IV) over 10-45 minutes, and within 6 hours, patients receive copper 64Cu-DOTA-daratumumab IV on day 0. Patients undergo PET on days 1 and 2.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 7 days and then at 2 weeks.