Phase II Study of the CD38 Antibody Daratumumab in Patients With High-Risk MGUS and Low-Risk Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
This research study is studying a drug as a possible treatment for Monoclonal Gammopathy of Unknown Significance (MGUS) or Smoldering Multiple Myeloma (SMM).

The drug involved in this study is:

-Daratumumab
Monoclonal Gammopathy|Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Daratumumab
The Proportion Of Patients In Deep Response, To determine the proportion of patients who are in VGPR or better after twenty cycles of therapy with Daratumumab. This will be determined at the time of best overall response. The estimate and the two-sided 90% binomial confidence interval will be provided in the analysis., 2 years
Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate (partial response or better according to the modified IMWG criteria) and the proportion of patients with a MRD, CR, PR or MR will be reported with 90% exact binominal confidence interval (CI). The exact two-sided 90% CI around response rate will be no wider than 28% with 40 eligible patients., 2 years|Duration of Response, To estimate the duration of response (time from objective response to disease progression or death, or date last known progression-free and alive for those who have not progressed or died) the Kaplan-Meier method will be used., 2 years|Complete Response Rate, The duration of overall CR is progression or death. Patients who have not progressed or died are censored at the date last known progression-free., 2 years|Overall Response Rate, The duration of overall response is measured as the time from initiation of first response to first documentation of disease progression or death. Patients who have not progressed or died are censored at the date last known progression-free., 2 years|Progression Free Survival, PFS is defined as the time from first-dose to the disease progression or death from any cause. Patients who have not progressed or died are censored at the date last known progression-free., 2 years|Incidence of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Safety analysis will be conducted using the Safety Population defined as any patient receiving one dose of study treatment. For toxicity reporting, all adverse events and laboratory abnormalities will be graded and analyzed using CTCAE version 4 as appropriate., 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial, which tests the effectiveness of an investigational drug. Preliminary experience suggests that daratumumab may prevent or postpone SMM from becoming active multiple myeloma. The purpose of this research study is to determine if the this drug may improve the rate of prevention of multiple myeloma.

Multiple myeloma is a cancer of the plasma cell, which is an important part of the immune system. Patients with active multiple myeloma generally require treatment. There are currently no approved therapies for smoldering multiple myeloma or Monoclonal Gammopathy of Unknown Significance.

Daratumumab is a drug that may kill or stop cancer cells from growing through a variety of mechanisms by attaching to the CD38 molecule, which is over-expressed in multiple myeloma cells. This type of drug is called a monoclonal antibody. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Daratumumab for the participant specific disease but it has been approved for use in active Multiple Myeloma.