Phase 2 Trial of Pertuzumab and Trastuzumab With Weekly Paclitaxel and Chemotherapy for HER2 Positive Breast Cancer
The main goal of this clinical trial is to test if adding pertuzumab (Perjeta), improves the anticancer activity of the combination chemotherapy regimen of trastuzumab (Herceptin) concomitant with paclitaxel, 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (T-FEC). The study will also test the safety of this therapy.
Her2-Positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Proportion of Participants With a Pathologic Complete Response Rate, To estimate the pathologic complete response rate (pCR) when pertuzumab is added to weekly trastuzumab/paclitaxel followed by trastuzumab/5-fluorouracil, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide neoadjuvant chemotherapy in HER2-positive breast cancer. This study will assess pCR rates separately in ER+ and ER- cancers. Pathologic complete response is defined as no evidence of viable invasive tumor cells at the primary tumor site and axillary lymph nodes in the surgical specimen. Residual Disease (RD) is defined as: Any invasive cancer in the breast or axillary lymph nodes in the surgical specimen., 20 weeks
Cardiac Safety, To assess the safety of the regimen, cardiac safety was measured by rates of clinically symptomatic congestive heart failure, asymptomatic decrease in LVEF \>10%, and decrease of LVEF below normal level. This was assessed up to 1 year following surgery., Up to 1 year post surgery|Count of Patients With Clinical Response, To assess clinical response according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, the number of patients are presented with a clinical response., Up to 28 weeks|Residual Cancer Burden Score, To assess cancer burben, the Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) score was used. This score has a range of 0 - III, where III (3) is the worst level of burden., Up to 28 weeks
Subjects will receive 6 months of T-FEC chemotherapy concomitant with trastuzumab and pertuzumab before surgery. Subsequently, subjects will undergo surgery to remove any cancer from the breast and axillary lymph nodes that may have survived the chemotherapy. It is expected that the majority of women will have no viable cancer left in the breast or lymph nodes by the time all chemotherapy is completed.