Phase II Study of Fluorine-18 3'-Deoxy-3'-Fluorothymidine (F-18-FLT) in Invasive Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well 3'-deoxy-3'-18F fluorothymidine (18F-FLT) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) works in predicting response in patients receiving chemotherapy and undergoing surgery for breast cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes. Diagnostic procedures, such as 18F-FLT PET/CT, may help in learning how well chemotherapy works to kill breast cancer cells before surgery and help doctors plan the best treatment.
Stage IIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: CT|DRUG: 18F-FLT|PROCEDURE: PET
%Change in FLT Uptake Between the Baseline (Pre-therapy) and the Early-therapy Imaging Studies to Predict Pathological Complete Response, The primary statistical evaluation will be based on the percent change in FLT SUV60 between baseline (pre-therapy, FLT-1) and the early-therapy imaging (5-10 days after chemotherapy, FLT-2) studies, Baseline (FLT-1) to early therapy (5-10 days after chemotherapy, FLT-2)
Correlation Between SUVmax and Ki-67 LI at FLT1(Baseline PET), For the purposes of reporting, SUVmax @ FLT1 will be considered the outcome. the correlation is measured between the fraction of Ki-67-positive tumor cells (the Ki-67 labeling index) and SUVmax at FLT1 .

Ki-67 labeling index (LI) was calculated as the number of Ki-67 positive tumor cells per one thousand tumor cells., Baseline (FLT-1)|Correlation Between SUVmax and Ki-67 LI at FLT3 (Post-NAC), For the purposes of reporting, SUVmax @ FLT-3 will be considered the outcome. correlation between the fraction of Ki-67-positive tumor cells (the Ki-67 labeling index) and SUVmax at FLT-3 Ki-67 labeling index (LI) was calculated as the number of Ki-67 positive tumor cells per one thousand tumor cells., Post-NAC (FLT3)|SUVmax at FLT-1 Comparison Between Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) 0/I and RCB II/III, While normally RCB (or other final determination) would be considered the outcome, since this is a predictive question, we will consider the Standardized Uptake Values the measurement of interest and report those values herein.

Mean Standard Uptake Values (max) at Baseline (FLT-1) were compared for Participants with Residual Cancer Burden 0/I vs Residual Cancer Burden of II/III, Baseline (FLT-1)|SUVmax at FLT-2 Comparison Between Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) 0/I and RCB II/III, While normally RCB (or other final determination) would be considered the outcome, since this is a predictive question, we will consider the uptake values the measurement of interest and report those values herein.

Mean Standard Uptake Values (max) after one cycle of NAC (FLT2) were compared for Participants with Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) 0/I vs RCB II/III, early treatment (FLT2)|SUVmax at FLT-3 Comparison Between Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) 0/I and RCB II/III, The Standard Uptake Values (max) after completion of NAC (FLT-3) were compared for Participants with Residual Cancer Burden 0/I vs Residual Cancer Burden of II/III While normally RCB (or other final determination) would be considered the outcome, since this is a predictive question, we will consider the mean of the uptake values the measurement of interest and report those values herein., post-NAC (FLT-3)|Change in Uptake Between FLT1 and FLT3 to Predict Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) of the Primary Tumor, To evaluate the relationship between the change in uptake between FLT1 and FLT3 and pathologic complete response, an ROC curve will be estimated and the area under the curve (AUC), along with its 90% confidence interval, will be determined. For the purposes of reporting, we will consider the percent change in uptake between FLT1 and FLT3 to be the outcome.

Reported values in the Outcome Measure table represent Change in uptake between FLT1 and FLT3, i.e., percentage change of SUVmax. The relationship between the change in uptake between FLT1 and FLT3 and pathological complete response was assessed by using ROC analysis. The Area Under the ROC Curve is reported in the Statistical Analysis section, Baseline (FLT-1) and post-NAC (FLT-3)|%Change SUVmax From FLT1-FLT2 to Predict Lymph Node Status at Surgery, Reported values in the Outcome Measure table represent %Change in uptake between FLT1 and FLT2, i.e., percentage change of SUVmax. The relationship between the change in uptake between FLT1 and FLT2 and lymph node (LN) status. For the purposes of reporting, the % Change in SUV will be considered the outcome., Baseline (FLT-1) and Early Therapy (FLT-2)|%Change SUVmax From FLT1-FLT3 to Predict Lymph Node Status at Surgery, %change in SUVmax from FLT1-FLT3 will be compared by lymph node status at surgery For the purposes of reporting, %change in SUVmax from FLT1-FLT3 will be consider the outcome., Baseline (FLT-1) and post-NAC (FLT-3)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate the percentage change in standardized uptake value at 60 minutes (SUV60) between baseline (FLT-1) and early-therapy (FLT-2) with pathologic complete response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy of the primary tumor in patients with locally advanced breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate correlation between FLT-1 and post-therapy (FLT-3) uptake parameters and tumor proliferation markers in locally advanced breast cancer.

II. To evaluate the relationship between FLT-1, FLT-2 and FLT-3 uptake parameters and pathologic complete response of the primary tumor and residual cancer burden (RCB).

III. To evaluate the relationship between FLT-1, FLT-2 and FLT-3 uptake parameters and non-response of the primary tumor (stable or progressive disease) to therapy.

IV. To evaluate the relationship between FLT-1, FLT-2 and FLT-3 uptake parameters and pathologic complete response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with regional disease in the lymph nodes in patients with locally advanced breast cancer.

V. To compare the changes of FLT-2 and FLT-3 uptake parameters to changes in tumor sizes from other serial imaging modalities such as mammograms, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and ultrasound.

VI. To compare the changes of FLT-2 and FLT-3 uptake parameters to metabolic changes from \[18F\] fludeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET, as available.

VII. To continue to monitor for potential safety issues and define any physiologic effects associated with 18F FLT administration.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 18F-FLT PET/CT at baseline (prior to chemotherapy, FLT-1), early therapy (5-10 days after the initiation of the first course of chemotherapy, FLT-2), and post therapy (within 3 weeks prior to surgery, FLT-3). Patients undergo standard surgical resection of residual tumor following completion of neoadjuvant chemotherapy.