Low-cost Imaging Technology for Global Prevention of Cervical Cancer
Cervical cancer remains the first or second leading cause of cancer death among women in many low-and middle-income countries. Cervical cancer prevention programs in low-resource settings are hampered by a lack of personnel with appropriate clinical expertise, lack of pathology services, and lack of associated infrastructure. There is an urgent need for appropriate diagnostic tools to enable accurate screening and diagnosis in low-resource settings. The purpose of this study is to develop and validate a low-cost Multimodal Mobile Colposcope (MMC) for global cervical cancer prevention programs. This new device will combine the imaging capabilities of a mobile colposcope with the microscopic imaging capabilities of a fiber-optic confocal imaging probe.
Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia
DEVICE: Multimodal Mobile Colposcope (MMC)
Develop and validate a Multimodal Mobile Colposcope (MMC), Image data will be used as a training set to develop and refine image analysis algorithms. Multimodal Mobile Colposcope will be compared with colposcopic impression considering clinical performance (sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and area under the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curve), Day 1 - at the colposcopy day
Cervical cancer remains the first or second leading cause of cancer death among women in many low-and middle-income countries. Cervical cancer prevention programs in low-resource settings are hampered by a lack of personnel with appropriate clinical expertise, lack of pathology services, and lack of associated infrastructure. There is an urgent need for appropriate diagnostic tools to enable accurate screening and diagnosis in low-resource settings. The purpose of this study is to develop and validate a low-cost Multimodal Mobile Colposcope (MMC) for global cervical cancer prevention programs. This new device will combine the imaging capabilities of a mobile colposcope with the microscopic imaging capabilities of a fiber-optic confocal imaging probe.