Radiation Therapy Planning Techniques in Reducing Damage to Normal Tissue in Women Undergoing Breast-Conserving Surgery for Ductal Carcinoma of the Breast
RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures, such as multifunctional magnetic resonance imaging and CT scans, may help reduce normal tissue damage in patients undergoing radiation therapy for cancer.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well radiation therapy planning techniques work in reducing damage to normal tissue in women undergoing breast-conserving surgery for ductal breast carcinoma.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy|PROCEDURE: biopsy|PROCEDURE: computed tomography|PROCEDURE: dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging|PROCEDURE: magnetic resonance imaging|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|PROCEDURE: ultrasound imaging|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Difference in lung NTDmean (biologically weighted [normalized] mean of total dose to lung normalized to 2 Gy fractions) in supine vs prone positions
Closeness of agreement between MRI-based vs CT scan/clip- based delineation of tumor bed|Closeness of agreement between clinical target volumes (CTVs) defined using uniform margin vs those defined using knowledge of all excision margins|Difference in NTDmean to ipsilateral non-planning target volume (PTV) breast tissue, chest wall muscle, and heart|Difference in mean volume of PTV in supine versus prone positions|Difference in dose homogeneity within PTV in each position|Difference in complexity of beams needed to achieve above dose homogeneity within PTV|Patient comfort with each positioning technique (assessed by questionnaire)
OBJECTIVES:

* To improve precision of tumor bed localization and definition of clinical target volume, and to reduce normal tissue irradiation in women undergoing partial breast or breast boost radiotherapy.
* To test whether post-operative MRI improves the precision of tumor bed delineation after wide-local excision in comparison with the current standard CT scan/clip method.
* To determine the impact of tumor position within the excision specimen upon the localization of clinical target volume in relation to the tumor bed.
* To compare theoretical non-target tissue exposure from partial breast irradiation planned in the supine and prone (face-down) positions.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo planned breast-conservation surgery and placement of titanium clips to the four radial, the deep, and superficial margins of the excision cavity (for localization of tumor bed).

Within 2 weeks after surgery, patients undergo supine radiotherapy-planning CT scan as standard analysis. Patients then undergo a radiotherapy-planning CT scan in the prone position. Patients complete a linear analogue questionnaire after both scans designed to assess patient comfort and anxiety in each position. Patients then undergo multifunctional MRI (including dynamic contrast-enhancement MRI and diffusion-weighted MRI) of the ipsilateral breast in the prone position (≥ 3 weeks after surgery). If suspicious lesions ≥ 5 mm are found on MRI, patients are referred for a second-look ultrasound with biopsy (if lesion visible on ultrasound); where suspicious lesions are seen only on MRI, patients undergo MRI-guided biopsy. Lesions \< 5 mm are included in the whole-breast radiotherapy treatment.