Dose-finding Study of CAELYXTM and RAD001 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is a dose finding, open-label, uncontrolled, dose-escalation trial to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and the Recommended Dose (RD) of the combination RAD001 (escalating daily dose) and CaelyxTM (fixed dose) to patients with advanced solid tumors.

Other purposes of the study are:

1. define the safety profile of the combination after repeated administrations
2. define hints of antitumor activity, to be confirmed in subsequent disease-oriented expansion phases at the RD.
3. define the pharmacokinetic profile of the combination
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: RAD 001 in combination with Caelyx
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and Recommended Dose (RD), The Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) is defined as the dose in which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT).The Recommended Dose (RD) is defined as one dose level below the MTD., 4 weeks
Safety profile of drug combination, Safety will be assessed by physical examination, interim history, and laboratory assessments. Adverse events will be graded according to the NCI-CTCAE, version 3.0., from the first dose of investigational medication to 30 days after trial end.|Response Rate, For patients with measurable disease overall tumor response is performed according to RECIST criteria. For patients with non measurable disease (prostate and ovarian cancer) response can be assessed according to serum tumor markers (Rustin criteria for CA 125 and criteria for PSA response)., every 8 weeks|PK parameters, PK parameters: terminal half life (T1/2), Total Body Clearance (ClTB), apparent volume of distribution (Vss), Cmax, Tmax, AUC0-48h, AUC0-inf, until 14 days post infusion
mTOR inhibitors are a new class of targeted antitumor agents which showed interesting antitumor activity in a variety of solid tumors, including prostate, soft tissue sarcomas , ovarian, endometrial, kidney, and breast cancer. They also exert an antiangiogenic effect and are almost devoid of bone marrow toxicity as single agents which makes them suitable for combination with cytotoxic drugs.

Anthracyclines are among the most used and effective cytotoxic agents, and in solid tumors their indications include, among others, breast, ovary, endometrial, prostate cancer. Liposomal Doxorubicin (CaelyxTM) could be an adequate replacement of doxorubicin to avoid potential side effects such as cardiotoxicity, alopecia, GI toxicity.

Testing a combination regimen including mTOR inhibitors and anthracyclines in those tumors which are known to be sensitive to both compounds is of high clinical interest and worthwhile.