S0350 Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Stage II, Stage III, or Stage IV Peripheral T-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, etoposide, gemcitabine, and methylprednisolone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with newly diagnosed stage II, stage III, or stage IV T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: methylprednisolone
2-year Overall Survival Rate, The overall survival rate is the percentage of patients who are alive 2 years after registration to the study. Overall survival is defined as the time between study registration and death due to any cause., 0-2 years
2-year Progression-free Survival Rate, Progression-free survival rate is the percentage of patients who do not show signs of progression at 2 years after registration to the study, including those whose disease has either completely or partially responded to treatment, or those whose disease is stable. Progression-free survival is defined as the time between study registration and documented progression, or death if no progression was observed., 0-2 years|Response Rate, Complete Response(CR) is a complete disappearance of all disease with the exception of nodes. No new lesions. previously enlarged organs must have regressed and not be palpable. Bone marrow(BM) must be negative if positive at baseline. Normalization of markers. CR Unconfirmed (CRU) does not qualify for CR above, due to a residual nodal mass or an indeterminate BM. Partial Response(PR) is a 50% decrease in the sum of products of greatest diameters (SPD) for up to 6 identified dominant lesions, including spleenic and hepatic nodules from baseline. No new lesions and no increase in the size of liver, spleen or other nodes., up to 3 years or time of disease progression|Number of Patients With Grade 3 Through Grade 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drug, Adverse Events (AEs) are reported by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. For each patient, worst grade of each event type is reported. Grade 3 = Severe, Grade 4 = Life-threatening, Grade 5 = Fatal., up to 18 weeks of protocol treatment
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine 2-year overall survival of patients with newly diagnosed, bulky stage II or stage III or IV peripheral T-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with cisplatin, etoposide, gemcitabine, and methylprednisolone.

Secondary

* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the response rate (complete unconfirmed response, complete response, and partial response) in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study.

Patients receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes, etoposide IV over 30-60 minutes, and methylprednisolone IV over 5 minutes on days 1-4. Patients also receive gemcitabine IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3-6 weeks, 3 months, and then every 6 months for up to 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 55 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.