Therapy Adapted for High Risk and Low Risk HIV-Associated Anal Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects of chemotherapy and intensity modulated radiation therapy in treating patients with low-risk HIV-associated anal cancer, and nivolumab after standard of care chemotherapy and radiation therapy in treating patients with high-risk HIV-associated anal cancer. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Chemotherapy drugs, such as mitomycin, fluorouracil, and capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving nivolumab after standard of care chemotherapy and radiation therapy may help reduce the risk of the tumor coming back.
AIDS-Related Anal Carcinoma|Anal Margin Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Anal Non-Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|HIV Infection|Rectal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Anal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Anal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Rectal Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Anoscopy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Capecitabine|PROCEDURE: Colonoscopy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Digital Rectal Examination|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|DRUG: Fluorouracil|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Lymph Node Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Mitomycin|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Proctoscopy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Sigmoidoscopy
Incidence of adverse events (Low-risk stratum), Evaluated by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The adverse events will be summarized by overall, as well as by grade using frequency (percentage). A two-sided 95% confidence interval will be reported together with percentage estimates. The proportion of participants who experience grade 3-4 toxicities will be estimated using a binomial point estimate and its 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (High-risk stratum), Evaluated by CTCAE version 5.0. The adverse events will be summarized by overall, as well as by grade using frequency (percentage). A two-sided 95% confidence interval will be reported together with percentage estimates. The proportion of participants who experience grade 3-4 toxicities will be estimated using a binomial point estimate and its 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years
Disease free survival (High-risk stratum), Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. The 95% confidence interval will be estimated using Greenwood's formula. The cumulative incidence of pelvic disease relapse will also be estimated from Kaplan-Meier method and the corresponding 90% confidence interval will be estimated using Greenwood's formula. In the analyses above, a two-sided p-value of 0.05 will be used to assess statistical significance., Time from enrollment until progression of local disease, distant metastasis, secondary primary cancer or death, assessed at 2 years|Disease control rate (Low-risk stratum), Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. The 95% confidence interval will be estimated using Greenwood's formula. The cumulative incidence of pelvic disease relapse will also be estimated from Kaplan-Meier method and the corresponding 90% confidence interval will be estimated using Greenwood's formula. In the analyses above, a two-sided p-value of 0.05 will be used to assess statistical significance., Time from enrollment until first recurrence (locoregional or distant metastasis) or chemo-radiation-related death, assessed up to 5 years|Change in CD4+ cell counts (High-risk stratum), Will be assessed by evaluating the changes from baseline in CD4+ using the Wilcoxon signed rank test to allow for nonnormality., Baseline up to 5 years|Change in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) viral load (Low-risk stratum), Will be assessed by evaluating the changes from baseline in HIV viral load using the Wilcoxon signed rank test to allow for nonnormality., Baseline up to 5 years|Change in combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) adherence, To assess cART adherence before, during, and after treatment with CRT and nivolumab to identify potential barriers to cART adherence when receiving concurrent oncological care., Baseline up to 5 years
Relationship between specific human papillomavirus (HPV) subtypes and clinical response to reduced intensity chemo-radiation therapy (CRT) or nivolumab, Will be presented using descriptive statistics (with no inferential statistics involved)., Up to 5 years|Relationship between expression of PD-1 in immune cells and PD-L1 in immune cells or cancer epithelial cells in the primary diagnostic tumor and clinical response to nivolumab or reduced intensity CRT, Will be presented using descriptive statistics (with no inferential statistics involved)., Up to 5 years|Effect of reduced intensity CRT and nivolumab on viral HIV reservoirs, Will be presented using descriptive statistics (with no inferential statistics involved)., Up to 5 years|Prevalence of cell-free plasma HPV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) before and after reduced intensity CRT and nivolumab, Relationship with clinical response with be explored. Will be presented using descriptive statistics (with no inferential statistics involved)., Up to 5 years|Impact of reduced intensity CRT on quality of life, Will be presented using descriptive statistics (with no inferential statistics involved)., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of reduced intensity chemo-radiation therapy (CRT) in low-risk disease.

II. To determine the safety of nivolumab after standard CRT in high-risk disease.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the efficacy (2-year disease-control rate \[DCR\]) of reduced intensity CRT in low risk disease.

II. To estimate the efficacy (2-year disease-free survival \[DFS\] rate) of nivolumab after standard CRT in high risk disease.

III. To evaluate the effect of low-dose CRT on immune function (CD4+ cell count) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) viral load.

IV. To evaluate the effect of nivolumab on immune function (CD4+ cell count) and HIV viral load.

V. To assess combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) adherence before, during, and after treatment with CRT and nivolumab to identify potential barriers to cART adherence when receiving concurrent oncological care.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the human papillomavirus (HPV) genotype in primary tumor and explore the relationship between specific HPV subtypes and clinical response to reduced intensity CRT or nivolumab.

II. To explore the relationship between expression of PD-1 in immune cells and PD-L1 in immune cells or cancer epithelial cells in the primary diagnostic tumor and clinical response to nivolumab or reduced intensity CRT.

III. To describe the effects of reduced intensity CRT and nivolumab on viral HIV reservoirs.

IV. To identify the presence of cell-free plasma HPV deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) before and after reduced intensity CRT and nivolumab and explore the relationship with clinical response.

V. To describe the effect of reduced intensity CRT on quality of life (QOL).

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 stratum.

HIGH-RISK STRATUM: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) during screening as clinically indicated, sigmoidoscopy/colonoscopy, anoscopy/proctoscopy or digital rectal exam and computed tomography (CT) throughout the study as well as blood sample collection during screening and end of treatment (EOT).

LOW-RISK STRATUM: Patients receive mitomycin IV on day 1 and either fluorouracil IV on day 1 or capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on Monday-Friday until the completion of radiation therapy at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients also undergo intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) once daily (QD) for 20-23 treatment sessions over 6 weeks. Patients also undergo digital rectal exam, anoscopy/proctoscopy and CT throughout the study, receive fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG) IV and undergo positron emission tomography (PET)/CT, PET/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and /or MRI during screening and follow-up as well as blood sample collection during screening and EOT. Some patients undergo lymph node biopsy during screening at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, every 3 months for years 1-2, every 6 months for year 3, and then annually for years 4-5.