Safety and Efficacy Study of Abraxane as Maintenance Treatment After Abraxane Plus Carboplatin in 1st Line Stage IIIB / IV Squamous Cell Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Maintenance treatment of advanced stage squamous cell NSCLC.

Phase III, randomized, open-label, multi-center study of nab-paclitaxel with best supportive care (BSC) or BSC alone as maintenance treatment after response or stable disease (SD) with nab-paclitaxel plus carboplatin as induction in subjects with stage IIIB/IV squamous cell NSCLC.

Subjects who discontinued treatment from the maintenance part for any reason other than withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up, or death, were entered into a Follow-up period that had a visit 28 days after progression or discontinuation.

Those who entered Follow-up without progression continued with follow-up scans according to standard of care (SOC) until documentation of progression of disease. Additionally, subjects were followed for OS by phone approximately every 90 days for a minimum of 18 months, for up to approximately 5 years after the last subject was randomized.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Abraxane (Induction)|DRUG: Carboplatin (Induction)|DRUG: Abraxane (Maintenance)|OTHER: Best Supportive Care (Maintenance)|DRUG: Abraxane (Induction)|DRUG: Carboplatin (Induction)|OTHER: Best Supportive Care (Maintenance)
Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Progression-Free Survival (PFS) From Randomization Into Maintenance, Progression-free survival is defined as the time in months from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression based on the investigator's assessment according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 criteria (documented by computerized axial tomography \[CT scan\], not including symptomatic deterioration) or death (any cause) on or prior to 01 Aug 2019. RECIST 1.1 Definition: - Complete response (CR) -disappearance of all target lesions; - Partial response (PR) -at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions from baseline - Stable disease (SD) -neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response (PR) nor sufficient increase of lesions to qualify for progressive disease (PD) - Progressive Disease (PD) - At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions from nadir, and/or the appearance of new lesions., From the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death of any cause; up to data cut off date of 15 September 2017; up to 27.6 months
Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Overall Survival (OS) From Randomization Into Maintenance, Overall survival was defined as the duration in months between randomization and death from any cause. Participants who were still alive as of the clinical cut-off date had their OS censored at the date of last contact or clinical cut-off (01 August 2019 whichever was earlier. The last contact date was the date of the last record in the database, or if the subject was lost to follow-up, the last known date that the subject was alive., From the date of randomization to death from any cause; up to 01 August 2019; survival follow up was 55.89 months|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a Confirmed Overall Response of Complete Response or Partial Response (Overall Response Rate) Over Entire Study, Overall response was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed assessment of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1 criteria and confirmed in no less than 28 days. The 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated using Clopper-Pearson method. RECIST 1.1 Definition: - Complete response-disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. - Partial response-at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions from baseline., Day 1 of treatment in the induction period and subsequent anticancer therapy, death or discontinuation up to 01 August 2019; maximum treatment duration was 234.1 weeks for entire study|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Over Entire Study, PFS was defined as the time in months from Day 1 of treatment for the Induction part to the date of disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 criteria (documented by CT-scan, not including symptomatic deterioration) or death (any cause) on or prior to 01 August 2019, whichever occurred earlier. RECIST 1.1 Definition: - Progressive Disease (PD) - At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions from nadir; the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of new lesions is also considered progression., Between Day 1 of the Induction Part through to the date of disease progression or death; up to 01 August 2019; the maximum treatment duration was 234.1 weeks for entire study|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Overall Survival (OS) Over Entire Study, Overall survival was defined as the time in months from Day 1 of treatment for the Induction part to death from any cause. Subjects who were alive at the time of analysis had their OS censored at the date or last contact of 01 August 2019, whichever was earlier. The last contact date was the date of the last record in the database, or if the subject was lost to follow-up, the last known date that the subject was alive., Between Day 1 of treatment in the Induction Part to death from any cause; up to 01 August 2019; survival follow up was 55.89 months|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a Confirmed Overall Response of Complete Response or Partial Response (Overall Response Rate) In Maintenance Beyond the Response in Induction, Overall response in the maintenance period was defined as the percentage of participants who showed an improvement in best overall response from stable disease (SD) or partial response (PR) during Induction to a Complete Response (CR) or PR during Maintenance according to RECIST 1.1 criteria and confirmed in no less than 28 days. Evaluation takes as reference the lesion measurement or status at the last tumor assessment before randomization to Maintenance. The 95% CI was calculated using Clopper-Pearson method. RECIST 1.1 Definition: - Complete response-disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. - Partial response-at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions from baseline. - Stable disease-neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase of lesions to qualify for progressive disease., For the induction period the maximum treatment was 19 weeks for the maintenance period the maximum treatment was 150 weeks.|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved Disease Control (Disease Control Rate) by Investigator Assessment During Induction and Over the Entire Study, Disease control rate was defined as the percentage of participants who had radiologic CR, PR or SD for \>= 6 weeks according to RECIST 1.1 criteria as determined by the investigator. Only participants with a confirmed CR/PR are included in this summary. Two timeframes are offered: - Time to confirmed response within the Induction timeframe. - Time to Confirmed Response Over the Entire Study, i.e. the time from Day 1 of treatment in Induction to the first occurrence of confirmed CR/PR any time during the study. RECIST 1.1 Definition: - CR- disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. - PR- at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions from baseline; - SD- neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase of lesions to qualify for PD. The 95% CI was calculated using Clopper-Pearson method., Induction is from Day 1 to a maximum treatment time of 19 weeks; entire study from Day 1 induction through maintenance up to PD; up to 01 August 2019; maximum treatment duration was 234.1 weeks for entire study|Time to Confirmed Response During Induction and Over the Entire Study, Time to confirmed complete or partial response (CR/PR) is defined as the time from day 1 of treatment in Induction to the first occurrence of confirmed CR/PR. Two timeframes are offered: - Time to confirmed response within the Induction timeframe. - Time to Confirmed Response Over the Entire Study, i.e. the time from Day 1 of treatment in Induction to the first occurrence of confirmed CR/PR any time during the study. Only participants with a confirmed CR or PR are included in this summary., Induction is from Day 1 to a maximum treatment time of 19 weeks; entire study from Day 1 Induction through Maintenance up to PD; up to 01 August 2019; maximum treatment duration was 234.1 weeks for entire study|Kaplan-Meier Estimate for Duration of Response Over the Entire Study, Duration of overall response was measured from the time criteria were first met for CR/PR until the first date the recurrent or progressive disease (PD) was radiologically documented. Participants who did not have PD after the response were censored on the date of last tumor assessment. If a participant died before PD, the participant was censored on the date of death., Between Day 1 of the Induction Period through to the date of disease progression or death; up to 01 August 2019; maximum treatment duration was 234.1 weeks for entire study.|Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) in the Induction Period, TEAE in the Induction part is defined as any adverse event (AE) with an onset on or after Day 1 of treatment for the Induction part, and on or before the day of randomization for subjects who entered into the Maintenance part, or, for subjects who did not enter into the Maintenance part, before the treatment discontinuation date plus 28 days or any serious AE which occurred thereafter but was determined to be related to any study drug by the investigator. The severity of AEs was graded based on National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 4.0 and the scale: Grade 1 = Mild, Grade 2 = Moderate Grade, 3 = Severe Grade, 4 = Life threatening, Grade 5 = Death. Relation to study drug was determined by the investigator., Day 1 of Induction up to Week 23 (maximum treatment in Induction plus 4 weeks if not continuing into Maintenance)|Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Over the Entire Study, TEAE over entire study is defined as any adverse event (AE) with an onset on or after Day 1 of treatment for the Induction part, and before the treatment discontinuation date plus 28 days, or any serious AE which occurred thereafter but was determined to be related to any study drug by the investigator. The severity of AEs was graded based on National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 4.0 and the scale: Grade 1 = Mild, Grade 2 = Moderate, Grade 3 = Severe, Grade 4 = Life threatening, Grade 5 = Death. Relation to study drug was determined by the investigator., From Day 1 up to 01 August 2019; (maximum treatment length plus 28 days); the maximum treatment duration was 234.1 weeks for entire study
The sponsor used 15 Sep 2017 as the database cut-off date.