Effects of Human Papillomavirus Diagnosis on Relationships of Patients With Head and Neck Cancer
This trial studies the effects of human papillomavirus diagnosis on the relationships of patients with head and neck cancer. Determining the effects of human papillomavirus diagnosis on relationships may determine whether human papillomavirus-positive patients and their partners are more likely to experience decline in relationship intimacy after diagnosis than human papillomavirus-negative patients and their partners. This may help researchers provide valuable insight into the degree to which a diagnosis of human papillomavirus affects patient relationships over and above the effects of a cancer diagnosis and address the need for additional patient counseling or education following diagnosis.
Head and Neck Carcinoma
Change in patients' and partners' perceived intimacy scores at baseline, Defined as total scores of the primary questions in patient survey and partner survey, Before treatment|Change in patients' and partners' perceived intimacy scores post treatment, Defined as total scores of the primary questions in patient survey and partner survey, within 30 weeks after treatment|Change Patients' and partners' perceived relationship intimacy levels, Categorized from the corresponding intimacy scores in the manner of loss of intimacy (0-48), stable relationships (49-71) and improvement (72-120)., within 30 weeks post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the agreement between patients' perceived intimacy level and their partners' perceived intimacy level at different time points in the course of their head and neck cancer (HNC) treatment.

II. To compare any changes in the patients' perceived intimacy scores between human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive and HPV-negative HNC patients at different time points in the course of their HNC treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Identify areas of concern or misinformation among patients and partners where further patient counseling or education may be indicated.

OUTLINE:

Patients and partners complete surveys over 10 minutes prior to surgery and 3-6 months after completion of treatment.