Comparison of Short-term Efficacy and Long-term Prognosis for Reduction Surgery and Radical Resection in Almost-cCR Rectal Cancer Patients
The aim of this study is evaluate the effect of two different surgical treatment on lower rectal cancer after almost clinical complete response(almost-cCR). All almost clinical complete response(almost-cCRs) were entered into two groups randomly. The estimated sample size of the minimal operation group was 221, and 221 in the Mile's group. Three years' progression-free survival(PFS) and overall survival(OS) were compared.
Almost-cCR|Surgery|Rectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: transanal surgery|PROCEDURE: Miles surgery|DRUG: Preoperative chemoradiotherapy
PFS, The progression-free survival of 3 years, three years|OS, 3 years of overall survival time, three years
carcinoembryonic antigen（CEA）, The level of carcinoembryonic antigen in blood, every 3 months,for 2 years|carbohydrate antigen 19-9（CA-199）, The level of carbohydrate antigen 19-9 in blood, every 3 months,for 2 years|International Index of Erectile Function-15, Describe the function of Erectile ,only for male patients, every 3 months ,for 2 years|International prostate symptom score, Describe the function of prostate,only for male patients, every 3 months ,for 2 years|Female sexual function index, Describe the function of sexual for female patients, every 3 months,for 2 years|Wexner incontinence score, Describe the degree of Anus incontinence, every 3 months,for 2 years|QOL, Describe the quality of life for tumor patients, every 3 months,for 2 years
Patients with low rectal cancer were treated with neoadjuvant radiotherapy, and two cycles of XELOX at the interval. All almost-cCRs after neoadjuvant treatment were randomly divided into minimal operation group or Mile's group. All cCRs were treated with "watch and wait". Patients after local recurrence were randomly divided into minimal operation group or Mile's group. If pathological result was pathological staging 3 after neoadjuvant therapy（ypT3） in minimal operation group or local postoperative recurrence occurred, patients need supplement of abdominoperineal resection (APR). With 3 years follow-up，the main research goals are 3 years of progression-free survival(PFS) and overall survival(OS). Secondary endpoints are side effects of chemotherapy, assessment of quality of life, surgical complications, adverse prognostic factors and so on.