Combination Chemotherapy, Bevacizumab, and/or Atezolizumab in Treating Patients With Deficient DNA Mismatch Repair Metastatic Colorectal Cancer, the COMMIT Study
This phase III trial studies how well combination chemotherapy, bevacizumab, and/or atezolizumab work in treating patients with deficient deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) mismatch repair colorectal cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Chemotherapy drugs, such as fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, and leucovorin calcium, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Bevacizumab may stop or slow colorectal cancer by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving combination chemotherapy, bevacizumab, and atezolizumab may work better in treating patients with colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Atezolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression free survival (PFS), The analysis set is intent-to-treat (ITT). The experimental arms will be compared to the control arm by the log-rank test stratified by BRAF status (V600E mutation or not), metastatic disease: (liver-only, extra-hepatic), and prior adjuvant therapy for colon cancer (yes, no). Hazard ratios and associated confidence intervals from a stratified Cox regression model will also be reported along with estimates of the distributions of time to PFS event by the method of Kaplan and Meier. Sensitivity analyses accounting for 2 or more consecutively missed scheduled tumor imaging scans before progression/death will also be conducted., From the time from randomization until first confirmed progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival (OS), Will be analyzed using the stratified log rank test and the ITT population. Kaplan-Meier plots will illustrate the distribution of these endpoints by treatment. Stratified Cox regression models will be used to estimate hazard ratios and associated confidence intervals., The time from randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Objective response rate (ORR) (complete response [CR] or partial response [PR]), Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Will be analyzed by a logistic regression models that control for the stratification factors (BRAF status, liver involvement, and adjuvant chemotherapy \[chemo\]) using the ITT population. Observed proportions along with confidence intervals will be presented by treatment., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The safety profile will be described by tabulating the maximum observed grade of adverse event for each individual adverse event, for each system organ class, and overall using the Safety population., Up to 30 days after last cycle|Rate of PFS, At 12 months|Disease control rate (CR + PR + stable disease [SD]), Assessed by RECIST 1.1. Will be analyzed by a logistic regression models that control for the stratification factors (BRAF status, liver involvement, and adjuvant chemo) using the ITT population. Observed proportions along with confidence intervals will be presented by treatment., At 12 months|Duration of overall response (CR or PR), Assessed by RECIST 1.1. Will be analyzed using the stratified log rank test and the ITT population. Kaplan-Meier plots will illustrate the distribution of these endpoints by treatment. Stratified Cox regression models will be used to estimate hazard ratios and associated confidence intervals., From the time of first response to first confirmed progression by the study investigator or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of SD, Assessed per RECIST 1.1. Will be analyzed using the stratified log rank test and the ITT population. Kaplan-Meier plots will illustrate the distribution of these endpoints by treatment. Stratified Cox regression models will be used to estimate hazard ratios and associated confidence intervals., From the time of first on-study assessment of SD to first progression by the study investigator or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Severity of fatigue, Will use the ITT population. Measured by the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue questionnaire. Will be compared between the control arm (Chemo-bevacizumab \[Bev\]) and the experimental arm by means of ordinal logistic regression with adjustment for the corresponding baseline measurement and stratification variables. The comparison will be performed at the significance level of 0.05 (two-sided) and the clinical meaningfulness of the comparison will be considered., At 16 weeks|Physical functioning, Will use the ITT population. Measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality-of-Life questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 physical functioning scale. Will be compared between the control arm (Chemo-Bev) and the experimental arm by means of ordinal logistic regression with adjustment for the corresponding baseline measurement and stratification variables. The comparison will be performed at the significance level of 0.05 (two-sided) and the clinical meaningfulness of the comparison will be considered., At 16 weeks|Health utility scores, Will use the ITT population. Will be measured using the EuroQoL 5 Dimensions 5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire., Up to 5 years|Proportion of patients reporting each response option at each assessment timepoint by treatment arm for item GP5 from the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G), Will use the ITT population., Up to 5 years|Intratumoral lymphocyte PD-L1+ expression (>= 1 % is positive) by immunohistochemistry (IHC) as a predictive biomarker of efficacy, Will use the ITT population., Up to 5 years|Efficacy dependent on the number of somatic mutations, Will use the ITT population., Up to 5 years|Efficacy in tumors with MLH1 silencing, Will use the ITT population., Up to 5 years|Change in quantification of cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) mutations, Will use the ITT population., Baseline up to 5 years|Development of progression or relapse to treatment in cfDNA, Will use the ITT population., Up to 5 years|Changes in T-cell repertoire diversity as a predictive biomarker of efficacy, Will use the ITT population., Baseline up to 5 years|PFS of patients with high levels of diversity, Compared to patients with low levels of diversity. Will use the ITT population., Up to 5 years|Change in T-cell diversity, Will use the ITT population., Baseline to first restaging between immunotherapy arms and the standard of care arm|Mechanism of immune resistance to PD-1 blockade in mismatch repair deficient (dMMR)/microsatellite instability-high metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) by comparative analysis of tumor samples collected, Will use the ITT population., Baseline up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy, based on progression-free survival (PFS), of fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, and leucovorin calcium (modified \[m\]FOLFOX6)/bevacizumab plus atezolizumab (combination) as compared to single agent atezolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the overall survival. II. To compare the objective response rates (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

III. To determine the safety profiles of single agent atezolizumab and the combination of mFOLFOX6/bevacizumab/atezolizumab in patients with mismatch-repair deficient (dMMR)/microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).

IV. To determine the duration of response. V. To determine the duration of stable disease. VI. To determine the rate of progression-free survival (PFS) at 12 months. VII. To evaluate the disease control rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\] + stable disease \[SD\]) at 12 months.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank tissue and blood samples for other future correlative studies from patients enrolled on the study.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 of cycles 1-10, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment with oxaliplatin repeats every 2 weeks for up to 10 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment of bevacizumab, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil repeat every 2 weeks for up to 48 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) with or without positron emission tomography (PET) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo collection of optional blood samples throughout the trial. (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL)

ARM II: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 48 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT with or without PET or MRI throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo collection of optional blood samples throughout the trial.

ARM III: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 48 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1 cycles 1-10, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46-48 hours on day 1. Treatment with oxaliplatin repeats every 2 weeks for up to 10 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment of bevacizumab, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil repeat every 2 weeks for up to 48 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT with or without PET or MRI throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo collection of optional blood samples throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 8 weeks for 18 months, and then every 12 weeks for up to 5 years.