Evaluation of De-escalated Adjuvant Radiation Therapy for Human Papillomavirus (HPV)-Associated Oropharynx Cancer
This study is designed for patients with a cancer of the oropharynx (tonsils or base of tongue) caused by the HPV virus. Traditional treatment involves surgery followed by six weeks of daily radiation therapy. This study investigates a less intense radiation treatment following surgery that uses half the dose of radiation given over two weeks rather than six weeks. Patients will be randomly assigned to receive the less intense treatment versus the traditional treatment by coin flip. Patients are twice as likely to receive the less intense treatment during randomization.
Oropharynx Cancer
RADIATION: Adjuvant Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin
Grade 3+ Adverse Events Rate, To compare rate of late grade 3-5 toxicities between de-escalated adjuvant radiation therapy (DART) and standard adjuvant therapy., 2 years
Local/Regional Control, Local/regional failure percentage as assessed by imaging or physical exam at 2 years after study registration for patients treated with DART vs standard therapy., 2 years|Quality of Life Between DART and Standard Adjuvant Therapy - FACT-HN, To compare the overall QOL between DART and standard adjuvant therapy at 1-year post-treatment as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head \& Neck (FACT-HN) questionnaire. The FACT-HN consists of 12 questions related to symptoms and feeling over the past 7 days. Items are answered on a scale of 0-4 where 0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, and 4=very much., 1 year|Quality of Life Between DART and Standard Adjuvant Therapy - EORTC-QLQ-HN35, To compare the overall QOL between DART and standard adjuvant therapy at 1-year post-treatment as measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) Head and Neck Module (EORTC-QLQ-HN35). The questionnaire consists of 35 items related to symptoms or problems during the past week. Thirty (30) items are answered on a scale of 0-4 where 0=not at all; 1=a little; 3=quite a bit, and 4=very much, and five (5) items are answered with yes/no., 1 year|Overall Survival, Percentage of patients alive at 2 years., 2 years|Disease-free Survival, Percentage of patients disease free and alive at 2 years., 2 years|Distant Failure Associated With DART vs Standard Treatment, Distant failure is defined as cancer that has recurred or spread to a part of the body far away from the original tumor site, 2 years
Recent studies suggest that tumors in the oropharynx (tonsils or base of tongue) caused by the HPV virus are much more sensitive to radiation and chemotherapy. Standard treatment for HPV associated oropharynx tumor after surgery involves six weeks of radiation therapy and has many long term side effects and complications.

Mayo Clinic recently piloted a study investigating whether patients with HPV-associated oropharynx tumors can receive less radiation and chemotherapy after surgery when compared with the standard treatment. The investigators current study will compare the new, shorter treatment course (2 weeks of treatment) with the standard course of treatment (six weeks). Patients will be randomized to either the less intense or standard treatment arm. Patients will be twice as likely to receive the less intense treatment during randomization.