Tech-TYA: eHealth Platform to Deliver Group Intervention for YA Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this study is to adapt a web-based platform to deliver a group intervention for young adult cancer survivors.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive-Behavioral Stress Management and Health Education
Satisfaction with the eHealth intervention delivery, Immediately after the intervention and each week participants will report their satisfaction with the full program through a brief survey., At the end of the 10-week intervention, overall and weekly satisfaction scores will be compiled|Acceptability of the eHealth intervention delivery, Immediately after the intervention participants will report their satisfaction with the full program through a brief survey., At the end of the 10-week intervention|Acceptability of the eHealth intervention delivery, The number of sessions attended, out of a maximum of 10, will be recorded, At the end of the 10-week intervention, the number of sessions attended will be recorded
Change in health-related quality of life (HRQOL) from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the 27-item Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General. Scores range from 0 to 108, with higher scores reflecting better quality of life., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in anxiety symptoms from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Emotion Distress-Anxiety Short Form 4a. Raw scores are converted to T-scores with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate more symptoms of anxiety., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in perceived cognitive function from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the PROMIS Cognitive Function Short Form 4a. Raw scores are converted to T-scores with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate better perceived cognitive function., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in depression symptoms from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the PROMIS Cognitive Function Short Form 4a. Raw scores are converted to T-scores with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate better perceived cognitive function., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in perceived emotional support from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the PROMIS Emotional Support Short Form 4a. Raw scores are converted to T-scores with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate greater perceived emotional support., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in fatigue from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the PROMIS Fatigue Short Form 4a. Raw scores are converted to T-scores with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate more fatigue., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in pain interference from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the PROMIS Pain Interference Short Form 4a. Raw scores are converted to T-scores with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate more pain interference., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in patient-reported physical function from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the PROMIS Physical Function Short Form 4a. Raw scores are converted to T-scores with a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate better patient-reported physical function., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in pain intensity from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the PROMIS Pain Intensity 1a. Scores range from 0 to 10, with higher scores indicating greater pain intensity., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in cancer-related distress from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the 22-item Impact of Event Scale-Revised. Scores range from 0 to 88, with higher scores indicating greater cancer-related distress., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in stress management self-efficacy skills from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete subscales from the Measure of Current Status. Subscale scores range from 0 to 8, 0 to 12, or 0 to 20 depending on the subscale. Higher scores indicate more of the construct being assessed., Baseline and immediately after the intervention|Change in coping from baseline to immediately after the intervention, Participants will complete the Brief Coping Orientation to Problems Experienced scale, which yields 14 two-item subscales. Subscale scores range from 2 to 8, with higher scores indicating greater usage of the coping strategy being assessed., Baseline and immediately after the intervention
In the first part of this study, the investigators adapted a website to deliver an evidence-based intervention for improving HRQOL for young adult cancer survivors, and then conducted usability testing sessions with young adult cancer survivors to get feedback on the website. In the second part of the study, the investigators will conduct a single-arm pilot trial in which the website will be used to deliver the intervention via weekly group meetings with a trained facilitator over the course of 10 weeks.