Pentostatin, Cyclophosphamide, Rituximab, and Mitoxantrone in Treating Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or Other Low-Grade B-Cell Cancer
RATIONALE: Pentostatin may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and mitoxantrone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Giving pentostatin together with combination chemotherapy and rituximab may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of mitoxantrone when given together with pentostatin, cyclophosphamide, and rituximab and to see how well it works in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or other low-grade B-cell cancer.
Leukemia|Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|BIOLOGICAL: pegfilgrastim|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: mitoxantrone hydrochloride|DRUG: pentostatin|GENETIC: fluorescence in situ hybridization|GENETIC: gene rearrangement analysis|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction|GENETIC: protein expression analysis|OTHER: flow cytometry|PROCEDURE: biopsy
Overall Response, Complete response (CR): Absence of lymphadenopathy, hepatomegaly or splenomegaly by physical examination and appropriate radiographic techniques (if abnormal pre-treatment): it is recognized that some patients with lymphoid malignancies who achieve a CR may have mild persistent abnormalities on CT Scan. Such abnormalities if stable on subsequent scanning will not be viewed as persistent disease in patients who otherwise meet the criteria for CR. Response will be assessed on an ongoing basis, but at a minimum of prior to cycle four and following completion of all therapy. Patients who are removed from study early will have response status determined at time of removal from study. The major criteria for determination of response to therapy in patients with CLL include physical examination and examination of the peripheral blood and bone marrow. Radiographic studies are not required but those that were abnormal pre-treatment, will be repeated to document the degree of maximal response., 3 years|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Mitoxantrone, The MTD is defined as the highest dose studied for which the incidence of DLT is less than 33%. In the phase I portion of the trial, cohorts of 3-6 pts will receive pentostatin, cyclophosphamide and rituximab along with one of three potential dose levels of mitoxantrone. The following dose escalation scheme will be followed: If none of the initial three pts in a cohort experience a dose-limiting toxicity (grade 4 infection, or grade ≥ 3 non-hematologic toxicity that persists for 7 days or more) then a new cohort of three pts will be treated at the next higher dose level. If one of the three pts in a cohort experiences DLT, then up to three additional pts will be treated at the same dose level. If two or more pts in a cohort experience DLT, then the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will have been exceeded, and no further dose escalation will occur. The previous dose level will be considered as the MTD., 2 years
OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of mitoxantrone hydrochloride followed by a phase II study.

* Phase I: Patients receive pentostatin IV, cyclophosphamide IV, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV on day 1. Patients also receive rituximab IV on day 1 beginning in course 2. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Phase II: Patients receive pentostatin, cyclophosphamide, rituximab, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride (at the maximum tolerated dose determined in phase I) as in phase I.

All patients receive either pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-4 following each course or filgrastim or sargramostim SC beginning 2 days after each course until blood counts recover.

Patients undergo blood collection and bone marrow biopsy periodically for assessment of therapy response by biomarker and laboratory studies. Samples are analyzed for molecular genetics for IgH arrangement by PCR and for response by immunoelectrophoresis. Some samples are analyzed for response by flow cytometry or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 63 patients (18 patients for phase I and 45 patients for phase II) will be accrued for this study.