Timing of Rectal Cancer Resection After Preoperative Chemoradiotherapy
This pilot study will take place at Health Sciences North (HSN) in Sudbury. Patients will be identified and screened for inclusion into the study once referred to a general or colorectal surgeon for resection of their rectal cancer. This may occur before or after preoperative chemoradiotherapy (CRT) but randomization will take place after CRT.
Rectal Neoplasms
OTHER: Extended Timing
Disease-free survival, The absence of any local recurrence or metastatic disease discovered on physical exam, endoscopy, or imaging, 3 years post surgery
The main question of this study is whether or not delaying surgery after preoperative CRT increases disease-free survival. The standard 6-7 week waiting period will be compared to 10-11 weeks, which was the time-frame identified in the Dutch Surgical Colorectal Audit as increasing the likelihood of pCR the most. This trial will also be able to determine if an increased waiting interval increases the rate of sphincter-preservation, local recurrence, and pCR. While similar to the GRECCAR-6 trial, our primary outcome is disease-free survival (a more clinically relevant outcome) and is the first North American clinical trial of this nature.

To maximize the utility of this trial, immunohistochemical staining will be performed on pre-CRT tumor samples to prospectively validate the scoring system proposed by Hur et al. \[28\] The question being whether or not expression of these biomarkers can predict which patients will experience pCR and disease-free survival.

The pilot will be constructed as a prospective, open-label clinical trial, with patients being randomized to undergo surgery at 6-7 weeks or 10-11 weeks after completion of preoperative CRT. The intention is that once preliminary data is available, other centres in Ontario will be recruited. This will not only help answer our research question, but also create a large, prospective database of rectal cancer patients. The Primary outcome (disease-free survival) will be assessed at 3 years.