Brivanib Alaninate in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Cervical Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well brivanib alaninate works in treating patients with cervical cancer that has come back. Brivanib alaninate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth or by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Cervical Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Persistent Disease|Recurrent Cervical Carcinoma
DRUG: Brivanib Alaninate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Objective Tumor Response, Proportion of participants with objective tumor response. Objective tumor response is defined as complete or partial tumor response assessed by RECIST 1.1, Every other cycle for first 6 months; then every 3 months thereafter until disease progression confirmed; and at any other time if clinically indicated based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease.|PFS for at Least 6 Months Without Non-protocol Therapy From Study Entry., Proportion of participants who survive progression-free for at least 6 months without non-protocol therapy from study entry. Progression is assessed by RECIST 1.1., Every other cycle for first 6 months; then every 3 months therafter until disease progression confirmed; and at any other time if cliniclly indicated based on symptoms or physical signs suggestive of progressive disease|Adverse Events (Grade 3 or Higher) During Treatment Period, Number of participants with a maximum grade of 3 or higher during treatment period. Adverse events are graded and categorized using CTCAE v.4.0, During treatment period and up to 30 days after stopping the study treatment.
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is the period of time from study entry to time of disease progression, death or date of last contact, whichever occurs first. Progression is assessed by RECIST 1.1, From study entry to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, up to 5 years of follow-up|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact.., From study entry to time of death or the date of last contact, up to 5 years of follow-up.
Serum Expression Levels of Surrogate Markers of Brivanib Alaninate Effects Including Angiogenic Factors (VEGF and bFGF) and Markers of Endothelial Damage (E-selectin, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1), Surrogate markers will be associated with response, PFS, and OS., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the proportion of patients with persistent or recurrent cervical cancer, who survive progression-free for at least 6 months and the proportion of patients who have objective tumor response (complete or partial), treated with brivanib (brivanib alaninate).

II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of brivanib in this cohort of patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with persistent or recurrent cervical cancer treated with brivanib.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain the serum expression levels of surrogate markers of brivanib effects including angiogenic factors (vascular endothelial growth factor \[VEGF\] and basic fibroblast growth factor \[bFGF\]) and markers of endothelial damage (E-selectin, vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 \[VCAM-1\], and (intercellular adhesion molecule 1 \[ICAM-1\]). (exploratory) II. To determine whether these marker expression levels alone or in combination are associated with response, PFS, or overall survival. (exploratory)

OUTLINE:

Patients receive brivanib alaninate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.