A Study of Ramucirumab (LY3009806) or Merestinib (LY2801653) in Advanced or Metastatic Biliary Tract Cancer
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ramucirumab or merestinib or placebo plus cisplatin and gemcitabine in participants with advanced or metastatic biliary tract cancer.
Biliary Tract Cancer|Metastatic Cancer|Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Ramucirumab|DRUG: Merestinib|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Placebo Oral|DRUG: Placebo IV
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS time was measured from the date of randomization until the first radiographic documentation of progression as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, or death from any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions. If a participant does not have a complete baseline disease assessment, then the PFS time was censored at the date of first dose, regardless of whether or not objectively determined disease progression or death has been observed for the participant. If a participant was not known to have died or have objective progression as of the data inclusion cutoff date for the analysis, the PFS time was censored at the last adequate tumor assessment date., Randomization to Progressive Disease or Death from Any Cause (Up To 20 Months)
Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from from randomization to the date of death due to any cause. For each participant who is not known to have died as of the data-inclusion cutoff date for overall survival analysis, OS time was censored on the last date the participant is known to be alive., Randomization to Date of Death from Any Cause (Up To 48 Months)|Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR): Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was the number of participants who achieve a best overall response of CR or PR divided by the total number of participants randomized to the corresponding treatment arm as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. CR defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of new lesions. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum LD), no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions., Randomization to Disease Progression (Up To 30 Months)|Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response of CR, PR, or Stable Disease (SD): Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR) was the number of participants who achieve a best overall response of CR, PR, or SD divided by the total number of participants randomized to the corresponding treatment arm as per RECIST v1.1. CR defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of new lesions. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum LD), no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions. SD was neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD for target lesions, no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions., Randomization to Disease Progression (Up To 30 Months)|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Minimum Concentration (Cmin) of Ramucirumab, PK was determined by the minimum observed plasma concentration (Cmin). 1 Cycle (C) = 21 days (D)., C1 D8, C2 D1, C3 D1, C4 D1,C5 D1,C7 D1, C9 D1 and C13 D1: Within 3 days Prior to Infusion(PTI)|PK: Plasma Concentration of Merestinib, PK was presented through graphical overlay comparison versus historic data. No numerical summary of data was intended or produced., C1 D8; C2 D1; C4 D1; C6 D1; C8 D1; C2 D8; C4 D8; C6 D8; C8 D8: Morning|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Anti-Ramucirumab Antibodies, Number of participants with positive treatment emergent anti-ramucirumab antibodies (ADA) was summarized by treatment group., Predose Cycle 1 Day 1 through Follow Up (Up To 48 Months)|Change From Baseline in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Hepatobiliary Questionnaire (FACT-Hep), FACT-Hep consists of 45 items in five subscales (1) physical well-being (PWB) score rage 0 -28; (2) social well-being (SWB) score range 0-28; (3) emotional well-being (EWB) score range 0-24; (4) functional well-being (FWB) score range 0-28; and (5) the hepatobiliary cancer subscale (HCS) Score range 0-72. The Trial Outcomes Index (TOI) is the sum of the PWB, FWB and Hep subscales with a scores range of 0 to 128. The Total FACT-Hep score was the sum of all questions with a scores range of 0 to 180.Total FACT-G score was the sum of the 27 questions in the PWB, SFWB, EWB and FWB with a scores range of 0 to 108. The FACT-Hep Symptoms Index with 8 key questions and scores range of 0 to 32 from the Hep Subscale. Higher score in sub-score or total score indicates better QOL and better health state. Participants were classified as "Improved" if they had positive change from baseline, "Worsened" if they had negative change from baseline, and "Stable" otherwise., Baseline, Follow Up (Up To 48 Months)|Change From Baseline on the EuroQol 5-Dimension, 5-Level Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) Index Score, EQ-5D-5L is a 2-part questionnaire that assesses general health status for 'today'. The first part is comprised of the following 5 participant-reported dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, and extreme problems. The responses are used to derive the health state index scores using country-specific algorithms, with scores ranging from less than 0 (where zero is a health state equivalent to death; negative values are valued as worse than dead) to 1 (perfect health). Index values were calculated using the US algorithm (-0.109 to 1). A higher score indicates better health state., Baseline, Follow Up (Up To 48 Months)|Change From Baseline in Participant-Reported EQ-5D-5L Visual Analog Scale (VAS) Score, EQ-5D-5L is a 2-part questionnaire that assesses general health status 'today'. The second part is assessed using a VAS on which the patient rates their perceived health state, ranging from 0 millimeter (the worst health you can imagine) to 100 millimeter (the best health you can imagine)., Baseline, Follow Up (Up To 48 Months)
The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ramucirumab or merestinib or placebo plus cisplatin and gemcitabine in participants with advanced or metastatic biliary tract cancer.