Collecting and Storing Tissue Samples From Patients With Rare or Cutaneous Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This research study is collecting and storing tissue samples from patients with rare or cutaneous non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Collecting and storing samples of tissue from patients with cancer to test in the laboratory may help the study of cancer in the future.
Adult Immunoblastic Lymphoma|Central Nervous System Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Childhood Immunoblastic Lymphoma|Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Lymphoproliferative Disorder|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Primary Cutaneous B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure
Clinical features, treatment, and outcomes, Up to 5 years|Pathologic and biologic features of these diseases, including molecular diagnostics and flow cytometry, Up to 5 years|Establishment of a bank of these pathologically reviewed diseases and make specimens of blood and tissue available to qualified researchers, Up to 5 years|Sub-groups of these diseases that could be targeted for future biologic, pathologic, or therapeutic studies, Up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the clinical features, treatment, and outcome of patients with rare or cutaneous pediatric non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).

II. To determine the pathologic and biologic features of these diseases, including molecular diagnostics and flow cytometry.

III. To establish a bank of these pathologically reviewed diseases and make specimens of blood and tissue available to qualified researchers.

IV. To determine sub-groups of these diseases that could be targeted for future biologic, pathologic, or therapeutic studies.

OUTLINE:

On study data will include presenting symptoms and signs, physical description of the tumor if it is on the skin, results of metastatic evaluation, stage (if available), blood count, markers, and the results of viral serologies. Any existing underlying conditions that could predispose to lymphoma will also be noted. Demographic and outcomes data will be stored and maintained by the COG Research Data Center. Demographic data will be linked to the specimen data in the BPC database.

The approach of this study is prospective data collection, including central pathologic review, relevant biologic studies, submission of material to the Biopathology Center (BPC) and collection of diagnostic and outcome data. Participants will be registered with a standard COG registration form for documentation of age, gender, race, date of diagnosis, initial presentation, initial work-up, and stage according to the standard staging for the specific disease, initial diagnostic procedure, and institutional diagnosis. Tissue will be sent according to guidelines in Section 4.0. Follow-up data, including relapse or progression and vital status will be reported annually for 5 years.

Patients will be followed annually for 5 years and data will be collected including vital status, evidence/absence of disease, type of treatment received, progression/relapse and whether the patient continues on study.