Donor Enriched Activated NK Cell Infusion Post Haploidentical Stem Cell Transplant for Refractory Myeloid Malignancies
Patients with relapse refractory myeloid malignancies have no therapeutic options for long term remission. Some success has been achieved in treating patients with refractory relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in using haploidentical cytokine activated natural killer (NK) cell immunotherapy. This process infuses natural killer (NK) cells from a half- or partially-matched donor. These cells are a type of lymphocytes made by a person's immune system that are important for fighting infection and tumor cells and are modified with other immune system substances to be more effective. One limiting factor is the recovery of recipient's immune system rejecting the infused NK cells. The use of haploidentical activated NK cell therapy post-transplant is a possible option to create longer lived infused NK cells and support cancer fighting ability.
Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: Donor Enriched Activated Natural Killer Cell Infusion
Percent of successful DEA-NK cell infusions, Assess the feasibility of infusing activated enriched donor natural killer cell infusion (DEA-NK) at day +7 post-transplant by the ability to manufacture and administer the DEA-NK cells at study dose levels., 100 Days|Number of adverse events for those who have a DEA-NK cell infusion, Assess safety of the DEA-NK cell infusions by recording adverse events experienced by subjects at each dose level., 100 Days|Maximum tolerated dose of DEA-NK cell infusions, To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of DEA-NK cell infusion as determined by dose limiting toxicities (DLT) observed., 100 Days
Non-Relapse Mortality Rate, Non-Relapse Mortality (NRM) at 100 days, 180 days and 1 year, 1 year|Time to neutrophil recovery, Time to neutrophil recovery defined as the first of 3 consecutive days following the nadir that the absolute neutrophil count is at least 500/µl, 21 Days|Time to platelet recovery, Time to platelet recovery defined as the first day that the platelet count is at least 20,000/µl without a transfusion in the preceding 7 days, 21 Days|Incidence of graft failure, Incidence of graft failure as defined by ANC \< 500/µl by Day +35 in the absence of disease recurrence, 35 Days
Patients with relapse refractory myeloid malignancies \[acute myeloid leukemia (AML) myelodysplastic (MDS)/myeloproliferative (MPD) disorders\] have no therapeutic options for long term remission. Haploidentical cytokine activated natural killer (NK) cell immunotherapy has been used with some success in treating patients with refractory relapsed AML. One limiting factor to the in-vivo expansion of infused activated NK cells is the recovery of recipient's immune system rejecting the infused NK cells. The use of haploidentical activated NK cell therapy post haploidentical transplant is an attractive option to induce in-vivo persistence of the infused NK cells and support anti leukemic efficacy.

This is a pilot trial testing the feasibility, safety and immunologic effects of dose escalated donor enriched activated natural killer cell infusion (DEA-NK) on day +7 post haploidentical stem cell transplantation. Participants must be adult patients with relapse refractory AML, MDS, or MPD, available haploidentical related donor, and adequate organ functions to undergo stem cell transplant. Participants will be followed for 6 months and 1 year following transplant.