PXD101 as Second-Line Therapy in Treating Patients With Malignant Mesothelioma of the Chest That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase II trial is studying how well PXD101 works as second-line therapy in treating patients with malignant mesothelioma of the chest that cannot be removed by surgery. PXD101 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Advanced Malignant Mesothelioma|Epithelial Mesothelioma|Recurrent Malignant Mesothelioma|Sarcomatous Mesothelioma
DRUG: belinostat|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Tumor Response Rate According to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT, MRI or X-ray: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 3 years
Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 3 years|Toxicity Profile, Toxicity information recorded will include the type, severity, time of onset, time of resolution, and the probable association with the study regimen. Toxicities table summarizes the observed incidence by severity and type of toxicity for toxicities that are related to treatment and greater than grade 1. Adverse events assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0., Up to 3 years|Apoptosis by TUNEL Assay, Summarized with contingency tables or scatterplots, and with quantitative measures of agreement., At baseline|Histone Acetylation by IHC and Western Blotting, Summarized with contingency tables or scatterplots, and with quantitative measures of agreement., At baseline and at 4 hours after last dose of PXD101 on day 5
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with unresectable malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) treated with PXD101.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the overall survival and time to progression in these patients. II. Assess the toxicities associated with this drug in these patients. III. Perform molecular correlative studies on tumor tissue (optional) and peripheral blood (required) and identify potential predictive markers for response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive PXD101 IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood collection during course 1 of treatment for biomarker correlative studies. Fetal hemoglobin (hemoglobin F) levels are measured via reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction as a potential predictive marker for response.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.