Study on the Efficacy and Safety of Chiglitazar Sodium in PCOS With T2DM
Purpose and significance: To explore the clinical efficacy and safety of Chiglitazar sodium in polycystic ovary syndrome with type 2 diabetes

Methods: From October 2022 to September 2024, a total of 142 PCOS with T2DM patients admitted to Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism at the Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University were recruited. Participants are randomized in a ratio of 1:1 into two treatment groups of 71 participants: ① control group；②experimental group. After randomization, the control group was treated with lifestyle intervention+ metformin+ orlistat (obese patients)+ pioglitazone, and the patients in the experimental group were treated with lifestyle intervention+ metformin+ orlistat (obese patients)+ Chiglitazar (32mg QD) until the end of follow-up. The treatment and follow-up period totaled 3 months. Observe the body weight, menstrual cycle and blood glucose control and other related indicators.

Type of study: randomized controlled, prospective, intervention study.
PCOS (Polycystic Ovary Syndrome) of Bilateral Ovaries|T2D
DRUG: pioglitazone group: lifestyle intervention+ metformin+ orlistat (obese patients)+ pioglitazone|DRUG: the Chiglitazar group: lifestyle intervention+ metformin+ orlistat (obese patients)+ Chiglitazar
Change of plasma glucose, Assessment the change level of plasma glucose. The unit is mmol/L., 12 weeks|The recovery of menstrual cycle, Assessment the recovery of menstrual cycle. The unit is day., 12 weeks
The changes in body weight, Assessment the changes of body weight. The unit is kilogram., 12 weeks
From October 2022 to September 2024, a total of 142 PCOS with T2DM patients admitted to Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism at the Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University were recruited. Participants are randomized in a ratio of 1:1 into two treatment groups of 71 participants: ① control group；②experimental group. After randomization, the control group was treated with lifestyle intervention+ metformin+ orlistat (obese patients)+ pioglitazone, and the patients in the experimental group were treated with lifestyle intervention+ metformin+ orlistat (obese patients)+ Chiglitazar (32mg QD) until the end of follow-up. The treatment and follow-up period totaled 3 months. Observe the body weight, menstrual cycle and blood glucose control and other related indicators.