Influence of Simple Renal Cysts on Renal Function
This is a prospective, cohort, randomized clinical trial examining the effect of simple renal cysts on renal function.
Simple Renal Cyst|Renal Function Disorder
PROCEDURE: CT scan with contrast|RADIATION: Nephroscintigraphy
Renal function, Glomerular filtration rate (GFR, ml/min/1.73 m2) is a test used to check how well the kidneys are working. Specifically, it estimates how much blood passes through the glomeruli each minute. A GFR of 60 or higher is in the normal range. A GFR below 60 may mean kidney disease. A GFR of 15 or lower may mean kidney failure.

The measurement of the glomerular filtration rate will be measured according to the results of the blood test and the results of nephroscintigraphy, 1 month
Ratio of cyst size and volume of atrophic renal parenchyma, Computed tomography with contrast will be used to determine the position of renal cysts, their location, size and volume of atrophic parenchyma (cm2) are calculated, 1 month
This study is planned to include patients from S.I. Spasokukotskiy Citi Clinical Hospital with simple renal accidentally discovered cyst.

The aim of the study is to evaluate the impact of simple renal cysts on renal function and explore the correlation between cyst's size, parenchymal atrophy, and renal function.

After receiving the results, the analysis of the data obtained is carried out.

1. The symmetry of the function of both kidneys is analyzed
2. The relationship between the presence of a simple kidney cyst and a decrease in its function in comparison with a healthy kidney is analyzed.
3. The relationship between the maximum size of a kidney cyst and a decrease in its function in comparison with a healthy kidney is analyzed.
4. The relationship between the volume of the atrophied kidney parenchyma and a decrease in its function as compared with a healthy kidney is analyzed.
5. Correspondence of GFR indices obtained by scintigraphy and by calculation using the Schwartz formula