A Study of Trabectedin or Dacarbazine for the Treatment of Patients With Advanced Liposarcoma or Leiomyosarcoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether overall survival for the trabectedin group is superior to the dacarbazine group for patients with advanced L-sarcoma (liposarcoma or leiomyosarcoma).
Advanced Liposarcoma or Leiomyosarcoma
DRUG: Trabectedin|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Overall Survival (OS), The OS is defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to date of death from any cause. If the participant is alive or the vital status is unknown, the participant will be censored at the date the participant will be last known to be alive., approximately 3 years 8 months (From Study start date [27 May 2011] up to final analysis data cut-off [05 January 2015]
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The Progression-Free Survival (PFS) was assessed as median number of months from baseline until the first documented sign of disease progression (increase in disease; radiographic, clinical, or both) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred earlier. Independent Data Monitoring Committee performed ongoing safety monitoring and conducted the interim analysis after 189 death events and 329 PFS events were observed., approximately 2 years 4 months (From Study start date [27 May 2011] up to interim analysis data cut-off [16 September 2013])|Time to Progression, Time interval in months between the date of randomization and the date of disease progression or death due to progression, whichever occurred first.

Independent Data Monitoring Committee performed ongoing safety monitoring and conducted the interim analysis after 189 death events and 329 PFS events were observed., approximately 2 years 4 months (From Study start date [27 May 2011] up to interim analysis data cut-off [16 September 2013])|Objective Response Rate, The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as best responses. according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST). CR defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 millimeter (mm). PR defined as at least 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of the diameters of the target lesions taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters. Confirmed responses are those that persist on repeat imaging study for at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. Independent Data Monitoring Committee performed ongoing safety monitoring and conducted the interim analysis after 189 death events and 329 PFS events were observed., approximately 2 years 4 months (From Study start date [27 May 2011] up to interim analysis data cut-off [16 September 2013])|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the time from the date of initial documentation of a response (CR or PR) to the date of first documented evidence of progressive disease (or relapse for participants who experience CR during the study) or death.

Independent Data Monitoring Committee performed ongoing safety monitoring and conducted the interim analysis after 189 death events and 329 PFS events were observed., approximately 2 years 4 months (From Study start date [27 May 2011] up to interim analysis data cut-off [16 September 2013])|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly., approximately 3 years 8 months (From Study start date [27 May 2011] up to final analysis data cut-off [05 January 2015])
This is a randomized study (study drug assigned by chance) using a 2:1 randomization. It is an open-label (all people know study drug), active-controlled (comparing to a different drug used for the same condition), parallel-group (different treatment groups continue with separate treatments throughout the study), multicenter study. This study will be divided into 3 phases, screening, treatment, follow-up and optional extension phase (OEP). During screening, potential participants will be assessed for study eligibility after providing signed informed consent. Approximately 570 patients who satisfy all inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to either the trabectedin (n=380) or dacarbazine (n=190) treatment groups. During the treatment phase, patients will receive study drug once every 3 weeks, until disease progression (defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] Version 1.1 criteria) or signs of toxicity. Assessments will be performed to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug, and patient safety will be monitored. During the follow-up phase, after the last dose of study drug, clinical outcomes for patients will be evaluated. Trabectedin will be administered at a dose of 1.5 milligram per square meters (mg/m\^2) through a catheter into a large vein as a 24-hour intravenous (IV) infusion, once every 3 weeks, until disease progression or signs of toxicity. Dacarbazine will be administered at a dose of 1.0 g/m\^2 as a 20-120 minute infusion, once every 3 weeks, until disease progression or signs of toxicity. In the OEP, participants who were previously randomized to the dacarbazine group will have the option to receive trabectedin at the discretion of the investigator.