Study of Oral Ixazomib Maintenance Therapy After Initial Therapy in Participants With Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Not Treated With Stem Cell Transplantation (SCT)
The purpose of this study is to determine the long-term safety and tolerability of ixazomib maintenance therapy.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Ixazomib
Number of Participants Categorized According to Performance Status (PS) Based on Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) PS, ECOG PS was used to assess physical health of participants. ECOG PS grade:0= fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction,1= restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature 2= ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours, 3= capable of only limited self-care, 4= completely disabled, cannot carry on any selfcare, totally confined to bed or chair confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours and 5= dead. Only those categories with non-zero values were reported., Month 25|Percentage of Participants Receiving Ixazomib With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Adverse events (AEs) were defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product reported from first dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug. A TEAE was defined as an AE that started or worsened after first study drug administration and within 30 days of last dose of study drug. Percentages are rounded off to the nearest whole number., Up to 58.4 months|Percentage of Participants Receiving Ixazomib With Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), AEs were defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product reported from first dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug. A TEAE was defined as an AE that started or worsened after first study drug administration and within 30 days of last dose of study drug. An SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability or incapacity, was a congenital abnormality or birth defect, or is an important medical event. Percentages are rounded off to the nearest whole number., Up to 58.4 months|Number of Participants Receiving Ixazomib With Clinically Significant Changes in Safety Laboratory Values, Clinical laboratory assessments included hematology, serum chemistry, and urinalysis. Any clinically significant changes in the clinical laboratory value over time based on the investigator's interpretation were reported., Up to 58.4 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the first occurrence of PD as evaluated by the investigator or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PD was defined as ≥25% increase from lowest value in serum M component or urine M-component; difference between involved and uninvolved free light chain (FLC) levels (absolute increase \>10 milligrams per deciliter \[mg/dL\]); bone marrow plasma cell percent ≥10%; new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas development or definite increase in existing bone lesions/soft tissue plasmacytomas size; hypercalcaemia development., From the first dose of study drug to every 4 weeks until PD or death from any cause (up to 58.4 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was measured as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the date of death., From the first dose of study drug to every 12 weeks during follow-up after PD or next line therapy or death whichever occurred later (up to 58.4 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved or Maintained Best Response Before PD or up to Subsequent Therapy, Response was assessed according to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. Best response includes partial response (PR), very good partial response (VGPR), and complete response (CR). PR as per IMWG criteria is 50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-hour urinary M-protein by ≥90% or to less than (\<)200 mg per 24 hours. VGPR is serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum M-protein plus urine M-protein level \<100 mg per 24 hours. CR is negative immunofixation of serum and urine and disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas and \<5% plasma cells in bone marrow. Percentages are rounded off to the nearest whole number., Up to 58.4 months|Duration of Complete Response (CR), Duration of CR was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug or the date of CR to the date of first documentation of PD. CR was defined as negative immunofixation on the serum and urine; soft tissue plasmacytomas disappearance; \<5% plasma cells (PCs) in bone marrow., Up to 58.4 months|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the date of first documentation of PD. PD was defined as ≥25% increase from lowest value in serum M component or urine M-component; difference between involved and uninvolved FLC levels (absolute increase \>10 mg/dL); bone marrow plasma cell percent ≥10%; new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas development or definite increase in existing bone lesions/soft tissue plasmacytomas size; hypercalcaemia development., Up to 58.4 months|Time to Next-Line Therapy (TTNT), TTNT was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the date of the first dose of next-line of antineoplastic therapy., Up to 58.4 months|Percentage of Participants With A New Primary Malignancy, Up to 58.4 months|Change From Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 as Measured by the Global Health Status (GHS), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. The change from baseline in GHS (EORTC QLQ-C30) score is presented. Participant responses to the question "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1=very poor to 7=excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall GHS., Baseline, Cycle 26 (cycle length=28 days)|Correlation Between Frailty Status and PFS, Participant's frailty status is classified as fit, unfit, or frail on the basis of 4 components: age, the Charlson comorbidity scoring system without age weighting, the Katz index of independence in activities of daily living, and the Lawton instrumental activities of daily living scale. The sum of the 4 frailty scores equals the total frailty score. A total frailty score of 0 corresponds to a frailty status of fit; a total score of 1, to unfit; and a total score of 2 or more, to frail. PFS is defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the first occurrence of PD as evaluated by the investigator., Up to 58.4 months|Correlation Between Frailty Status and OS, Participant's frailty status is classified as fit, unfit, or frail on the basis of 4 components: age, the Charlson comorbidity scoring system without age weighting, the Katz index of independence in activities of daily living, and the Lawton instrumental activities of daily living scale. The sum of the 4 frailty scores equals the total frailty score. A total frailty score of 0 corresponds to a frailty status of fit; a total score of 1, to unfit; and a total score of 2 or more, to frail. OS was measured as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the date of death., Up to 58.4 months|Plasma Concentration of Ixazomib, Plasma concentrations of the complete hydrolysis product of ixazomib citrate (ixazomib) were measured using a validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) assay., Cycle 1 (1 and 4 hours post-dose Day 1, Days 8 and 15 pre-dose); Cycle 2 and 5 (Days 1 and 8 pre-dose) and Cycles 3, 4, 6 to 10 (Day 1 pre-dose) (cycle length=28 days)|Time to Resolution of Peripheral Neuropathy (PN) Events, PN is defined as the event in the high-level term of peripheral neuropathies not elsewhere classified (NEC) according to the medical dictionary for regulatory activities (MedDRA). A PN event was considered as resolved if its final outcome was resolved with no subsequent PN event of the same preferred term occurring on the resolution date or the day before and after. Time to resolution was defined as the time from the initial onset date (inclusive) to the resolution date for resolved events., Up to 58.4 months|Time to Improvement of PN Events, PN is defined as the event in the high-level term of peripheral neuropathies NEC according to the MedDRA. A PN event is considered to be improved if the event improves from the maximum grade; that is, all the grades recorded after the maximum grade are less than the maximum grade. Time to improvement is defined as the time from the initial onset date (inclusive) of the maximum grade to the first onset date that the toxicity grade is below the maximum grade with no higher grade thereafter, or the resolution date, whichever occurs first., Up to 58.4 months
The drug being tested in this study is called ixazomib. Ixazomib is being tested to slow disease progression and improve overall survival in Chinese participants who have newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) who have had a major positive response to initial therapy and have not undergone stem cell transplantation (SCT). This study will look at the effect of ixazomib has on the length of time that participants are free of disease progression and their overall survival. After the implementation of Amendment 8, participants who received placebo-matching capsules before unblinding and have not yet experienced disease progression will cross over to receive ixazomib.

The study will enroll approximately 37 patients. Participants will be assigned to a single treatment group

• Ixazomib

All participants will be asked to take one capsule on Days 1, 8, and 15 of every 28-day cycle, for up to approximately 24 months (equivalent to 26 cycles \[if no cycle delays\], to the nearest complete cycle) or until documented progressive disease (PD) or intolerable toxicity, whichever occurs first.

This multi-center trial will be conducted in China. The overall time to participate in this study is until a total of approximately up to 60 months. Participants will make multiple visits to the clinic, and every 4 weeks until the next line of therapy begins for a follow-up assessment.