Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 Antibodies Plus S-adenosyl-methionine Treatment in Patients With Advanced-Stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This study is being done to analyze the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of treatment using combination of SAM and anti-PD-1/PDL1 antibodies for patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Anti-PD-1/PD-L1|DRUG: S-Adenosyl-Methionine
Incidence of adverse events, Safety will be monitored by addressing and recording all adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and specific laboratory abnormalities (worst grade). Toxicities will be graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 30 days after last treatment dose
Objective response rate(ORR), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 2 years|Progression free survival(PFS), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 2 years|To the relief time (TOR), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 2 years|Duration of relief(DOR), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 2 years|6-month survival rate, Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 6 months|12-month survival rate, Evaluated by researchers based on the RECIST 1.1 standard, 12 months
This is a study of combination anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies and S-adenosyl-methionine (SAM) for adult patients (≥18) with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.

SAM is a compound found naturally in the body and is available as a dietary supplement in the U.S. SAM is a prescription drug in China treating liver disease and advanced HCC with poor liver function under certain circumstances. Also, SAM has recently been shown to play a key role regulating cancer cell proliferation trough epigenetic pathway.

Anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibodies (including pembrolizumab, nivolumab, sintilimab, toripalimab, camrelizumab, tislelizumab and atezolizumab etc.) are given intravenously at assigned dose. Treatment may continue until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or consent withdrawal.

This study is aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of SAM and PD-1/PD-L1 monoclonal antibody in unresectable late-stage HCC patients.