HER2 Directed Dendritic Cell Vaccine During Neoadjuvant Therapy of HER2+Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to learn more about how to treat patients with HER-2/neu positive invasive breast cancer (IBC). HER-2/neu is a type of protein that is known to be over-expressed in aggressive breast cancer.

The study drug for this trial is DC1 study vaccine which is a HER2-sensitized dendritic cell (DC) study vaccine. This study vaccine is made from the participant's blood cells collected from a procedure called leukapheresis. Dendritic cells are immune cells that can tell the immune system to fight infection. In laboratory testing and from previous studies in participants, these cells may also help the immune system attack tumors such as breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer Female|Breast Cancer, Male|Invasive Breast Cancer|HER2-positive Breast Cancer|HER2 Positive Breast Carcinoma|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage III Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic Cell Vaccine (DC1)|DRUG: Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy|PROCEDURE: Curative Surgery
Expansion Phase Schedule Selection by Week 4, Immunogenicity of HER2 DC Vaccine per treatment Arm, based on week 4 ELISPOTs. Three metrics of CD4+ Th1 response will be computed for each patient, (a) overall anti-HER2 responsivity (i.e., if patient demonstrates a positive ELISPOT response to \>1 peptide, (b) response repertoire (i.e., number of reactive peptides) and (c) cumulative response (total SFC/10\^6 cells across 6 peptides). The primary immunogenicity outcome will be the cumulative response at week 4 (week after completion of all vaccinations)., By Week 4|Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) Rate, Pathologic complete response rate of participants treated in the Expansion Phase. Clinical efficacy will be defined by the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate, the percentage of patients who achieve pCR based on surgical pathology assessment.The definition of pathologic complete response (pCR) will be ypT0/is N0 (no residual viable invasive disease in the breast or nodes). Any response less than pCR will be scored as incomplete response or progression (if tumor size increases during neoadjuvant chemotherapy on physical exam/breast imaging)., Week 26 to 28 - At post-surgical pathological assessment
Recurrence Free Survival (RFS), Recurrence-free survival (RFS) will be defined as the time from first vaccination to documented recurrence (any breast event), death due to any cause or last patient contact that documents recurrence-free status (i.e., a clinic or scan date)., Up to 3 years post-surgery
The trial will consist of two phases. The first lead in phase will enroll 12 participants evenly divided into two arms (alternating enrollment) with different initial priming study vaccination schedules.

Arm A: One DC1 study vaccination per week x 3 weeks. Arm B: Two DC1 study vaccinations per week (given 3 days apart for example Mon and Thurs or Tues and Friday) x 3 weeks.

Following accrual of this initial group of 12 participants, HER2 ELISPOT post study vaccination responses will be assessed to determine which of the two sequences provides the greater increase in anti HER2 response at week 4 over baseline. This will determine which sequence will be used in the second expansion phase of accrual. If both arms are determined equal then Arm A will be selected as the default sequence.

Second phase of accrual will consist of 14 additional participants to undergo study vaccination using the optimal schedule declared in the first phase of the trial. The trial will consist of two phases. The first lead in phase will enroll 12 participants evenly divided into two arms (alternating enrollment) with different initial priming study vaccination schedules.

Arm A: One DC1 study vaccination per week x 3 weeks Arm B: Two DC1 study vaccinations per week (given 3 days apart for example Mon and Thurs or Tues and Friday) x 3 weeks.

Following accrual of this initial group of 12 participants, HER2 ELISPOT post study vaccination responses will be assessed to determine which of the two sequences provides the greater increase in anti HER2 response at week 4 over baseline. This will determine which sequence will be used in the second expansion phase of accrual. If both arms are determined equal then Arm A will be selected as the default sequence.

Second phase of accrual will consist of 14 additional participants to undergo study vaccination using the optimal schedule declared in the first phase of the trial.