Detection of Prostate Cancer Using Voided Urine
This study collects urine from male patients seen at the urology clinic to detect prostate cancer cells, shed in voided urine, using the optical imaging method developed in the laboratory, which targets certain biomarkers expressed on prostate cancer cells. The information learned from this study may allow researchers develop a simple diagnostic test for the management of those patients who have elevated prostate specific antigen (PSA) and are suspected to have prostate cancer. It may also help researchers understand the genetic risk factors associated with prostate cancer.
Prostate Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Sensitivity and specificity of the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide receptor (VPAC) assay diagnosis, The diagnostic properties of the assay will be assessed by estimating the sensitivity, specificity and positive and negative predictive values, along with their exact Clopper-Pearson 95% compatibility intervals. Subgroup estimates of specificity, positive and negative predictive values and exact compatibility intervals will be generated for comparisons between controls with and without benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH). All study variables will be summarized and tabulated by prostate cancer status, BPH status, and by percent malignant cells (%M), fluorescence intensity, and VPAC protein quantity. Continuous variables will be summarized in groups by means with standard deviations or, of skewed, by medians with first and third quartiles and with other continuous variables by correlation coefficients. Discrete variables will be summarized by frequency counts and percentages., Up to 2 years
Correlations and expected values of aggressiveness, Spearman's correlation coefficients of aggressiveness (measured by Gleason score or prognostic grade group \[PGG\]) associated with increasing levels of %M, fluorescence intensity, and VPAC protein quantity will be estimated along with 95% compatibility intervals. Linear regression modeling will be used to evaluate how expected values of aggressiveness (measured by Gleason score or PGG are associated with increasing levels of %M, fluorescence intensity, and VPAC protein quantity, respectively, while adjusting for demographics or other study variables that appear to be confounders in preliminary summary analyses. Analyses will be conducted using SAS version 9.4., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To detect prostate cancer cells, shed in voided urine, using the optical imaging method developed in our laboratory, which targets vasoactive intestinal polypeptide receptor 1 (VPAC1) receptors expressed on prostate cancer cells and validates the results with prevailing condition of the patients/volunteers and evaluate diagnostic accuracy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish if the malignant cells as a percent of total cell shed in the urine.

II. To establish the fluorescence intensity around malignant cells. III. To establish if the VPAC protein quantity in shed malignant cells correlate with the aggressiveness of the disease.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo collection of urine samples at baseline during standard of care office/clinic visit.