Phase II Study of Skin Toxicity Dosing of IRESSA (Gefitinib) in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate the activity (response rate and rate of stable disease) of Iressa administered as a single agent escalated to a dose that produces grade 2 skin toxicity in patients with recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN).
Head and Neck Neoplasms
DRUG: Gefitinib
Response (CR or PR), Stable Disease (SD), and Progressive Disease (PD) Rates, The proportion of subjects that responded \[complete (CR) or partial response (PR)\], had stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) as defined by the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST)

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter (LD) since the treatment started

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions, 8 weeks
Median Progression-free Survival Time, Progression-free survival (PFS) is the number of months during and after Gefitinib treatment during which the cancer did not get worse (progress) as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST). Progressive disease is associated with at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. All patients developed progressive disease or died during the 9-month observation period., 9 months
This open-label, multi-institution, phase II study evaluated the activity of gefitinib at individually escalated doses up to 750mg to achieve the skin toxicity grade greater than or equal to 2. Patients were started on gefitinib 250mg orally daily for 2 weeks. At 2 weeks, patients were reevaluated and given skin toxicity grade according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 3.0 (CTC 3.0). Patients with grade 2 or greater skin toxicity remained on 250 mg daily; in patients with grade 0-1 skin toxicity the dose was escalated to 500 mg daily and again to 750 mg daily on next evaluation until grade 2 or greater skin toxicity was developed.

The protocol was later amended because of the reported lower efficacy of the 250 mg dose and patients were then started at 500 mg per day. There was no further dose escalation beyond 750 mg per day irrespective of the response or grade of skin toxicity. Therapy was discontinued upon disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, death or patient's withdrawal of consent. Dose interruptions were used as the first approach to managing the toxicity of the patients who experienced grade 3-4 non-hematological toxicities. Gefitinib was interrupted for up to a maximum of 14 days until the toxicities dropped to grade 1 or less. Adherence to therapy was monitored using drug diaries that were collected at each physician visit and assessed against pill counts.