A Study of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 With Veledimex in Combination With Nivolumab in Subjects With Glioblastoma; a Substudy to ATI001-102
This research study involves an investigational product: Ad-RTS-hIL-12 given with veledimex for production of human IL-12. IL-12 is a protein that can improve the body's natural response to disease by enhancing the ability of the immune system to kill tumor cells and may interfere with blood flow to the tumor.

Nivolumab is an antibody (a kind of human protein) that is being tested to see if it will allow the body's immune system to work against glioblastoma tumors. Opdivo (Nivolumab) is currently FDA approved in the United States for melanoma (a type of skin cancer), non-small cell lung cancer, renal cell cancer (a type of kidney cancer), Hodgkin's lymphoma but is not approved in glioblastoma. Nivolumab may help your immune system detect and attack cancer cells. Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex will be given in combination with Nivolumab to enhance the IL-12 mediated effect observed to date.

The main purpose of this substudy is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a single tumoral injection of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 given with oral veledimex in combination with nivolumab.
Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Ad-RTS-hIL-12|DRUG: veledimex|DRUG: Nivolumab
Safety of intratumoral Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and oral veledimex doses in combination with nivolumab in subjects with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma., Evaluation of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.03 will be based on the incidence, intensity and type of adverse event., 3.5 years|Tolerability of intratumoral Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and oral veledimex doses in combination with nivolumab in subjects with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma., Evaluation will be based on expected dose compliance., 3.5 years
Optimal dose of Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex given in combination with nivolumab, 3.5 years|Tumor objective response rate (ORR), 3.5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), 3.5 years|Rate of pseudo-progression (PSP), 3.5 years|Overall survival (OS), 3.5 years|Changes from baseline in cellular responses elicited by Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex in combination with nivolumab., 3.5 years|Changes from baseline in humoral immune responses elicited by Ad-RTS-hIL-12 and veledimex in combination with nivolumab., 3.5 years|Veledimex pharmacokinetic profile between the brain tumor and the blood., Evaluation: maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), 3.5 years|Veledimex pharmacokinetic profile between the brain tumor and the blood., Evaluation: time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax), 3.5 years|Veledimex pharmacokinetic profile between the brain tumor and the blood., Evaluation: half-life (t1/2), 3.5 years|Veledimex pharmacokinetic profile between the brain tumor and the blood., Evaluation: area-under-the-concentration versus time curve (AUC), 3.5 years|Veledimex pharmacokinetic profile between the brain tumor and the blood., Evaluation: volume of distribution (Vd), 3.5 years|Veledimex pharmacokinetic profile between the brain tumor and the blood., Evaluation: clearance (CL), 3.5 years|Veledimex concentration ratio between the brain tumor and the blood., 3.5 years
Eligible patients will receive one dose of nivolumab, via infusion, one week prior to standard of care craniotomy and tumor resection (subtotal or total). On the day of surgery, patients will receive one dose of veledimex before the resection procedure. Ad-RTS-hIL-12 will be administered by free-hand injection. Patients will continue on oral veledimex for 14 days. Following veledimex, patients will receive nivolumab via infusion every two weeks.

The study is divided into three periods: the screening period, the treatment period and the follow-up period.