Combined Inhibition of PD-1 and DNA Hypomethylating Agent +/- Chemotherapy in High-risk AML or Elderly Patients With AML Who Are Unfit for Intensive Chemotherapy
This phase II trial studies how well tislelizumab combined with DNA hypomethylation agent +/- CAG regimen (cytarabine, idarubicin / Aclarithromycin, rhG-CSF/ PEG-rhG-CSF) work in treating patients with high-risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or AML patients older than 60 years of age who are unfit for standard-dose chemotherapy. The expressions of PD-1 and PD-L1 are increased in AML cells. However, blocking the immune checkpoint alone has limited efficacy as a single agent in highly proliferative leukemia cells. During the recovery period after cytotoxic chemotherapy, the activation of PD-1/PD-L1 pathway may be increased and DNA hypomethylation agents can also up-regulate PD-1, PD-L1 and PD-L2 in AML patients. The up-regulation and activation of above immune checkpoint molecules are related to chemotherapy resistance. Therefore, adding chemotherapy and epigenetic regulation agents to Immune checkpoint blockade therapy may work better through overcoming drug resistance in AML treatment.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia, in Relapsed or Refractory|Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Elderly, Unfit|Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Positive Minimal Residual Disease
DRUG: Tislelizumab
Objective response rate (ORR), The percentage of subjects with complete remission (CR) and incomplete hematological recovery (CRi) within 2 medication cycles., Up to 3 months post-treatment
The percentage of subjects with CR and CRi with negative minimal residual disease (MRD) within 2 cycles., Up to 3 months post-treatment|Duration of Remission (DOR), The time from first obtaining CR or CRi to relapse or death from AML., Up to 1 year post-treatment|Progression-free survival time (PFS), the time from the day of treatment to relapse, progression or death (whichever occurs first is preferred)., Up to 1 year post-treatment|Overall survival (OS), The time from the day of treatment to death., Up to 1 year post-treatment|28-day response rate, The percentage of subjects with CR and CRi (calculated based on the best response) at the 28th day after treatment., Up to 35 days post-treatment|Incidence of adverse events, The incidence of adverse events will be assessed according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to 35 days post-treatment|PD-L1 expression in acute myeloid leukemia bone marrow cells, The expression levels of PD-L1 in acute myeloid leukemia bone marrow cells will be assessed at the 28th day after each medication cycle., Up to 1 year post-treatment
This phase II trial studies how well tislelizumab combined with DNA hypomethylation agent +/- CAG regimen (cytarabine, idarubicin / Aclarithromycin, rhG-CSF/ PEG-rhG-CSF) work in treating patients with high-risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or AML patients older than 60 years of age who are unfit for standard-dose chemotherapy. The expressions of PD-1 and PD-L1 are increased in AML cells. However, blocking the immune checkpoint alone has limited efficacy as a single agent in highly proliferative leukemia cells. During the recovery period after cytotoxic chemotherapy, the activation of PD-1/PD-L1 pathway may be increased and DNA hypomethylation agents can also up-regulate PD-1, PD-L1 and PD-L2 in AML patients. The up-regulation and activation of above immune checkpoint molecules are related to chemotherapy resistance. Therefore, adding chemotherapy and epigenetic regulation agents to Immune checkpoint blockade therapy may work better through overcoming drug resistance in AML treatment.