Pathological Complete Response Rate in Locally Advanced Breast Cancer With FEC, EC-T, or TC as Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) has become the standard therapy for both locally advanced and early-stage breast cancer in recent years for the improvement breast conserving surgery rate and the evaluation of treatment response in vivo. Pathological complete response (pCR) is an independent prognostic factor irrespective of breast cancer intrinsic subtypes after NAC. The trial is designed to compare effectiveness between anthracycline and/or taxane as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for operable advanced breast cancer in different molecular typing. In this trial the investigators will randomly assign 200 primary breast cancer patients to receive six cycles of fluorourcil, epirubicin,and cyclophosphamide(FEC), or four cycles of epirubicin and cyclophosphamide (EC) followed by four cycles of docetaxel(T), or six cycles of docetaxel and cyclophosphamide (TC). Trasuzumab was recommended combining docetaxel to patients if HER-2 positive.The effectiveness of therapy will be estimated after every two cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Surgery will be performed after completing designated full cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The primary endpoint is to assess pathologic complete response (pCR, ypT0/is ypN0) rate in different regiments. The secondary endpoint is to assess the relationship between pCR rate with molecular typing in different regiments, so that the investigators could optimize neoadjuvant chemotherapy regiment according to molecular typing.
Breast Cancer|Pathological Complete Response|Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Percentage of Participants With Pathological Complete Response (pCR), Participants were evaluated following eight cycles of treatment and after surgery to assess for pCR. pCR was defined as no invasive or in situ residual tumor masses in the breast and lymph nodes according to pathologist examination. The percentage of participants with pCR was reported, and the 95% CI for one-sample binomial was constructed using the Pearson-Clopper method., 2 years
The relation between pCR rate, molecular subtypes, and different regiments., The correlations were calculated using the Spearman rank correlation coefficient. The criteria for judging the size of the correlation coefficient were applied: correlations\<0.30 are considered minor, correlations between 0.3-0.49 are considered medium, and ≥0.5 are considered strong. Cohen's kappa statistic was used to determine inter-examiner agreement. According to Altman's guidelines, it is poor when kappa scores ≤0.20, fair when kappa between 0.21-0.40, moderate when kappa between 0.41-0.60, good when kappa 0.61-0.80, and very good when kappa ≥0.80., 2 years
The trial is designed to compare effectiveness between anthracycline and/or taxane as neoadjuvant chemotherapy for operable advanced breast cancer in different molecular typing. In this trial the investigators will randomly assign 200 primary breast cancer patients to receive six cycles of fluorourcil, epirubicin,and cyclophosphamide(FEC), or four cycles of epirubicin and cyclophosphamide (EC) followed by four cycles of docetaxel(T), or six cycles of docetaxel and cyclophosphamide (TC). Trasuzumab was recommended combining docetaxel to patients if HER-2 positive.The effectiveness of therapy will be estimated after every two cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Surgery will be performed after completing designated full cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The primary endpoint is to assess pathologic complete response (pCR, ypT0/is ypN0) rate in different regiments. The secondary endpoint is to assess the relationship between pCR rate with molecular typing in different regiments, so that the investigators could optimize neoadjuvant chemotherapy regiment according to molecular typing.