Genetically Modified T Cells Against Ovarian Cancer
The primary objectives are to evaluate the safety and efficacy of infusion of autologous ovarian cancer immunogene-modified T cells (OC-IgT cells).
Ovarian Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: OC-IgT cells
percentage of adverse effects after OC-IgT cells injection, To assess the safety of autologous OC-IgT cells in vivo. The percentage of patients who have adverse effects will be evaluated by using the NCI CTCAE V4.0 criteria., up to one month
Rate of successful OC-IgT generation, The percentage of successful OC-IgT generation, which are derived from subjects and pass the safety test after standard culture procedures, viable for at least one prepatation, will be evaluated., up to one month|Ability of OC-IgT cells to induce anti-ovarian cancer reaction, measurement of CA125 concentration in blood sample, after 1 month from OC-IgT cells infusion until 12 months after infusion|Ability of OC-IgT cells for anti-ovarian cancer reaction, Objective response (complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)) was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria. CR is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., after 1 month from OC-IgT cell infusion until 24 months after infusion
Ovarian cancer (OC) is a cancer that forms in or on an ovary. The majority of OC arises from the epithelium (outer lining) of the ovary. In 2015 OC was found in 1.2 million women and resulted in 161,100 deaths worldwide. Among women it is the seventh-most common cancer and the eighth-most common cause of death from cancer. Treatment for OC consists of surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and sometimes, novel immunotherapies. The best treatment options depend on many factors, including the type of OC, its stage and grade, as well as the general health of the patient.

Adoptive immunotherapy with cytotoxic T lymphocytes reactive with specific antigens has proven to be effective. Novel chimeric antigen receptor gene modified T cell (CART) based immunotherapy has demonstrated great successes in B cell malignancies. Here, the study aim is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of genetically engineered OC-specific and immune modulatory T cells in patients. The primary study objectives are to evaluate the safety of the investigational product, autologous OC-IgT cells, to subjects by IV and intratumoral injection. The secondary study objectives are (1) to evaluate the success rate of generating autologous OC-IgT cells in vitro, and (2) to determine the anti-OC efficacy of the OC-IgT cells.