Edinburgh Pain Assessment Tool (EPAT©) Study
To determine if the institutionalisation of a regular systematic approach to the assessment of pain in inpatient cancer units using the Edinburgh Pain Assessment Tool (EPAT©) leads to better control of pain than that achieved by usual care.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: EPAT© Educational Package
The magnitude of change in pain scores at the 2 evaluation points measured by patient self-rating, Maximum study duration is 9 days per patient
Magnitude of change in BPI scores over the 2 evaluation points (includes impact on function), Maximum study duration is 9 days per patient|Patient satisfaction with attention to pain, Maximum study duration is 9 days per patient|Global distress, Maximum study duration is 9 days per patient
Background and relevance to cancer - Pain associated with cancer has a severe negative impact on quality of life and can also limit a patient's ability to tolerate potentially life-saving tumoricidal treatment. Unfortunately in practice only half of cancer patients receive adequate pain control. A fundamental reason for this is inadequate assessment of pain. The institutionalisation of pain assessment as a 5th vital sign on the bedside chart combined with training and guidance in pain management (EPAT) is a potentially effective solution.

We have already evaluated the feasibility and efficacy of EPAT in a randomised trial of 150 oncology inpatients and found that by Day 4 after admission 90% reported adequate pain control compared to only 52% of those who received usual care.

Aims - We now want to evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of EPAT in practice and ask: Does it reduce cancer pain more that usual care? Are there adverse effects? Is it cost effective?

Outline plan - A UK-wide cluster randomised controlled trial of 18 inpatient cancer centres of which half will use the EPAT package and half usual care. The trial outcomes are clinically significant improvement, adverse effects such as opiate toxicity and cost effectiveness.