Pembrolizumab in Combination With Radiotherapy in Locally Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide and in the U.K alone; there are 38,000 new cases of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) a year. The new treatment being tested in this study is called pembrolizumab, this is a type of immunotherapy, which works by stimulating the body's own immune system to fight cancer cells.

Pembrolizumab blocks a protein on the T-cell surface (one of the cells of the immune system), which then triggers the cell to find and kill cancer cells. This will be given with radiotherapy to see if this combination is safe and effective at treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.

Pembrolizumab has proved to be a safe and effective treatment for other cancers such as melanoma and lung cancer. Radiotherapy is often given as standard treatment to treat lung cancer, and is proven to be a safe and tolerable treatment. However, the safety of the combination of Pembrolizumab and thoracic radiotherapy delivered concurrently has not been tested yet prospectively
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Recommended phase II dose (RP2D), The dose level at which \< 2/6 participants experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT)., Within the period from the start of treatment until 12 weeks after completion of combined pembrolizumab and thoracic radiotherapy|Dose limiting toxicity, Non-haematologic:

Any ≥grade 3 non-haematological toxicity definitely, probably or possibly related to the combination of Pembrolizumab and thoracic radiotherapy including:

* Increased MRC dyspnoea score \>2 grades from baseline or CTCAE dyspnoea grade ≥3 persisting for \>7 days
* Pneumonitis grade ≥4, or grade ≥3 persisting for \>7 days despite optimal medical management.
* Oesophagitis grade ≥4, or ≥3 persisting for \>7 days despite optimal medical management
* Toxicity leading to interruption of radiotherapy for \>4 days. Any grade 4 toxicity that has not previously been reported with pembrolizumab and is considered at least possibly related to the combination of pembrolizumab with radiotherapy

Haematologic:

* Neutropenia ≥grade 3 with fever \>38.5
* Thrombocytopaenia ≥grade 4.

Any other event, in the opinion of the Safety Review Committee, is considered to be clinically significant and related to trial treatment., Within the period from the start of treatment until 12 weeks after completion of combined pembrolizumab and thoracic radiotherapy.
Safety profile, based on the occurrence of SAEs, SARs and SUSARs, Until 90 days after participant completes study treatment. Assessed up to 17 months.|Toxicity profile, based on the occurrence of adverse events, as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Until 30 days after participant completes study treatment. Assessed up to 15 months.|Treatment compliance of Pembrolizumab combined with thoracic RT, Until end of treatment for each participant.|Best overall response to Pembrolizumab combined with thoracic RT (RECIST), Assessed for each participant from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence. Assessed up to 15 months|Best overall response to Pembrolizumab combined with thoracic RT (immune-related response, Assessed for each participant from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence. Assessed up to 15 months|Progression Free survival, Participants who have not progressed at the time of analysis will be censored at the last date they were known to be alive and progression free., Calculated for each participant from the date of registration to first documented evidence of disease progression or death. Assessed up to 15 months.|Overall survival, Participants who have not died at the time of analysis will be censored at the last date they were known to be alive., Calculated for each participant from the date of registration to death. Assessed up to 15 months.
Baseline biopsy expression level of the immunological checkpoint PD-L1, Assessed for each participant at time of registration to the trial|Change in PD-L1 expression level following Pembrolizumab combined with thoracic RT, Assessed for each participant from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence. Assessed up to 15 months|Immune monitoring of primary tumour and peripheral blood mononuclear cells, Assessed for each participant from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence. Assessed up to 15 months
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide and in the U.K alone; there are 38,000 new cases of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) a year. The new treatment being tested in this study is called pembrolizumab, this is a type of immunotherapy, which works by stimulating the body's own immune system to fight cancer cells.

Pembrolizumab blocks a protein on the T-cell surface (one of the cells of the immune system), which then triggers the cell to find and kill cancer cells. This will be given with radiotherapy to see if this combination is safe and effective at treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer.

Pembrolizumab has proved to be a safe and effective treatment for other cancers such as melanoma and lung cancer. Radiotherapy is often given as standard treatment to treat lung cancer, and is proven to be a safe and tolerable treatment. However, the safety of the combination of Pembrolizumab and thoracic radiotherapy delivered concurrently has not been tested yet prospectively