Endometrial Tissues and Mononuclear Cells Receptivity in Pathogenesis of Endometrial Proliferative Processes
A prospective observational study of endometrial tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells receptivity to sex steroid hormones in postmenopausal patients with endometrial proliferative processes
Endometrial Hyperplasia Without Atypia|Endometrial Hyperplasia With Atypia|Endometrial Cancer|Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells|Postmenopause|Estrogen Receptor|Progesterone Receptor
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: endometrial tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells receptivity
endometrial tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells receptivity, Expression level of ERα, ERβ, GPER, PRA, PRB, mPR, PGRmC1 in endometrial tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients with endometrial polyps, endometrial hyperplasia, atypical endometrial hyperplasia, endometrial cancer, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Endometrial cancer is in third place among cancer diseases in female population of Russia. The peak morbidity occurs during the postmenopausal period. In this regard, early diagnosis of previous endometrial proliferative processes and effective methods for their treatment are relevant. However, failures with hormonal therapy are often observed. This may be due to the low receptivity of the pathological tissue. It is also known that the functional activity of immunocompetent cells is controlled by the immune system, however, studies of the receptivity of peripheral blood mononuclear cells to sex steroid hormones were carried out in healthy blood donors. Changes in mononuclear cells receptivity may be one of the pathogenetic links in the development of endometrial proliferative processes and endometrial cancer. This may also influence the effectiveness of their treatment. In this regard, the purpose of the study is to evaluate the role of the expression of estradiol and progesterone receptor genes in endometrial tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells in the occurrence of endometrial proliferative processes in postmenopausal patients with a pathogenetic justification for the choice of treatment method. To achieve this goal, the investigators investigated the expression level of estrogen and progesterone receptors (ERa, ERb, GPER, PRA, PRB, mPR, PGRmC1) by RT-PCR in pathological endometrial tissue and peripheral blood mononuclear cells. GABDH was used as a comparison gene. The data obtained made it possible to determine the significance of mononuclear cell receptivity in the pathogenesis of endometrial proliferative processes.