A Study of Paclitaxel/Carboplatin With or Without CDP791 in Patients With Lung Cancer
A 2-part study to examine safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics (part 1), and anti-tumour effects (part 2), of CDP791 combined with carboplatin and paclitaxel.
Carcinoma|Non-Squamous Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: CDP791 10mg/kg|DRUG: CDP791 20mg/kg
Tumor Response Rate (RR), Participants are evaluated for response using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (Therasse P et al; 2000). The tumor response rate is calculated as the total number of subjects whose best overall response is a complete response (CR)= disappearance of all target lesions; or a partial response (PR) = \>=30 % decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, divided by the number of randomized subjects (RS):

(CR + PR) / RS., 24 weeks
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as time from date of randomization until the date progressive disease (PD) is first recorded or until death, whichever is first., Up to 57 weeks|Time to Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure (TTF) is defined as the time from date of randomization until the date of progression, death or, for subjects who discontinued treatment for toxicity reason, their last dosing date, whichever occurs first., Up to 57 weeks|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from date of randomization until the date of death., Up to 57 weeks|Duration of Overall Response, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), whichever is recorded first, until the first date of documented progressive disease or death., Up to 57 weeks|Time to Response, Time to response is defined as the time from the first dose of study therapy until measurement criteria are first met for complete response or partial response (whichever is recorded first)., Week 24
This is a two part study to investigate the safety and anti-tumour effects of standard chemotherapy, plus an investigational drug (CDP791), in patients with advanced non small cell lung cancer.

In part one, patients receive carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy together with one of 2 doses of CDP791. The main aim of this part is to investigate safety and tolerability of carboplatin/paclitaxel plus CDP791.

If part one confirms that the combination of drugs is safe and well tolerated, 156 patients will enter part 2. They will be randomized to receive either carboplatin/paclitaxel (C/P) alone, or C/P plus one of 2 doses of CDP791. The main aim of this part of the study is to compare the anti-tumor effects of CDP791 plus C/T with those of C/T alone. Participants will receive up to six cycles of chemotherapy with or without CDP791. Those whose disease stabilizes, or responds, will be eligible to continue to receive CDP791. Participants in the C/T alone arm whose disease progresses will be eligible to receive CDP791 monotherapy.

Participants will be followed up longterm, so that survival can be measured.