Adjuvant Chemoradiation and Biomarkers of Response in High-risk Breast Cancer
The goal of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of adjuvant chemoradiation therapy in high-risk breast cancer patients who had received neoadjuvant chemotherapy before their lumpectomy and/or mastectomy and were found to have residual disease. As well as examine the effects of this treatment combination on the immune system.
Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer Stage I|Breast Cancer Stage II|Breast Cancer Stage III
DRUG: T-DM1|DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy 0|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy 1
Assess safety via toxicity grading, Assessment of toxicity frequency and severity using CTCAE v5.0 adverse event grading scale throughout chemoradiation treatment and follow up., 1 year|Assess feasibility via treatment delays and completion, Percent of participants completing adjuvant chemoradiation therapy and percent of participants requiring radiation or chemotherapy dose delays., 1 year
Assess chronic cosmetic outcomes via LENT-SOMA scale, Assessment of chronic radiation-related cosmetic outcomes (e.g. dermatitis, telangiectasia, pigmentation, and radiation fibrosis) using "Late Effects Normal Tissue Task Force (LENT)-Subjective, Objective, Management, Analytic (SOMA)" scale throughout chemoradiation treatment and follow up. Each side effect is graded on a scale of 0 to 4, with higher scores meaning more severe outcome., 1 year|Assess acute cosmetic outcomes via RTOG/EORTC scale, Assessment of overall acute radiation related skin changes using the "Toxicity Criteria of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) and the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)" grading scale throughout chemoradiation treatment and follow up. Each side effect is graded on a scale of 0 to 4, with higher scores meaning more severe outcome., 1 year|Assess cosmetic outcomes via breast measurements, Measurement of breast tissue size by measuring tape/ruler., 1 year
Estimate recurrence-free survival, Recurrence-free survival after 1 year of adjuvant chemoradiation therapy., 1 year|Describe the amount and type of immune cells via lab tests, Lab analysis (CBC w/ Differential and ELISA assays) of blood to characterize and count leukocyte populations (neutrophils, monocytes, lymphocytes) throughout adjuvant chemoradiation treatment and follow up., 1 year|Assess quality of life via RAND SF-36 patient survey, RAND SF-36 survey assesses feelings on overall health and activity level during follow up after adjuvant chemoradiation treatment., 1 year|Assess quality of life via FACT-B patient survey, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- Breast (FACT-B) survey generally assess physical wellbeing, Social wellbeing, emotional wellbeing and functional well being during follow up after adjuvant chemoradiation treatment., 1 year
Breast cancer is often treated with a combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. In patients with advanced breast cancer, (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy is often given prior to surgical removal (lumpectomy and/or mastectomy). Neoadjuvant chemotherapy has been consistently shown to down-stage primary breast tumors and convert positive underarm lymph nodes to pathologically negative nodes. Residual disease discovered after receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy indicates an increased risk for recurrence and poor overall survival. The combination of concurrent chemotherapy and radiation after surgery (adjuvant chemoradiation) may improve local and distant recurrence outcomes in high risk breast cancer patients. Chemoradiation is a standard treatment for many cancers and is universally associated with improvements in local recurrence, however, it has not historically been given as post-surgery breast cancer treatment.

The study will evaluate the safety, feasibility, and effectiveness of chemoradiation therapy in high-risk breast cancer patients. Radiation has been associated with various effects on immune cells. The study will also examine the effects of this combination on the immune cells.

Participants on this trial will be treated (per approved clinical guidelines) with capecitabine or Trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) depending on Her2 status while receiving radiation at the same time. Participants will have their blood drawn at various timepoints during treatment and follow up. Participants will also be asked to complete surveys asking about overall health and wellbeing.