Phase I/IIa Study of BR790 in Combination With Tislelizumab in Adult Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
This study is a Phase I/IIa, multi-center, open-label study of BR790 in combination with Tislelizumab with a dose escalation part followed by a dose expansion part in adult subjects with advanced solid tumors.

These treatment to characterize the safety, tolerability, PK, PD and preliminary antitumor activity.

The study treatment will be administered until the subject experiences unacceptable toxicity, progressive disease, and/or has treatment discontinued at the discretion of the Investigator or the subject, or due to withdrawal of consent.
Advanced Solid Tumor
DRUG: BR790+Tislelizumab
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) in the dose escalation phase. A DLT is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications that occurs within the first treatment cycle. (Dose escalation phase), 24 months|maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Measurements of MTD (i.e. the highest dose of BR790 associated with the occurrence of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) in \<33% of patients), 24 months
Area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC), Area under the plasma concentration time curve of BR790, 24 months|Plasma concentration (Cmax), Highest observed plasma concentration of BR790, 24 months|t1/2, Half life of BR790, 24 months|Duration of response ( DCR ), DCR is defined as proportion of participants with complete response, partial response, stable disease(CR+PR+SD). (Dose escalation phase), 24 months|Duration of response ( DOR ), DOR is defined as the time from the participant's initial objective response (CR or PR) to study drug therapy, to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. (Dose escalation phase), 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the interval of time between the date of first treatment to the earliest date of disease progression or death which occurs first. (Dose escalation phase), 24 months|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the interval of time between the date of first treatment until death, loss to follow up or termination of the study by the sponsor(Dose escalation phase), 24 months
Phase 1 (Dose Escalation Phase of BR790 Tablets Combined with Tislelizumab Injection): According to the incidence of DLT in BR790 Tablets Combined with Tislelizumab Injection Monoclonal Antibody in the Treatment of Advanced Solid Tumors, MTD and the Phase 2 clinical trial dose (RP2D) combining PK , efficacy and safety data were determined.

Stage II (BR790 Tablets combined with tislelizumab injection dose expansion stage): Evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) of BR790 Tablets combined with tislelizumab injection according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) V1.1 .