Bevacizumab or Cetuximab And Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, Capecitabine, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Pacreatic Cancer That Has Been Completely Removed By Surgery
This randomized phase II trial is studying bevacizumab to see how well it works compared to cetuximab when given together with gemcitabine, capecitabine, and radiation therapy in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has been completely removed by surgery. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab and cetuximab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Cetuximab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine and capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving bevacizumab or cetuximab together with gemcitabine, capecitabine, and radiation therapy after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery. It is not yet known whether bevacizumab is more effective than cetuximab when given together with gemcitabine, capecitabine, and radiation therapy in treating pancreatic cancer.
Stage IA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IB Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: capecitabine|RADIATION: radiation therapy|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Proportion of Patients With Specific Protocol Defined Adverse Event at Conclusion of All Therapy, Specific toxicities to be monitored pursuant to the primary endpoint include:

1. Any grade 5 toxicities
2. Grade 4 dyspnea, neutropenic fever, allergic reaction, rash, wound dehiscence, wound infection, hypertension
3. Grade 3 or higher arterial thromboembolic phenomena, bleeding, phlebitis/deep vein thrombosis (DVT)/pulmonary embolism (PE), hemorrhage, ileus, bowel perforation, diarrhea, and mucositis
4. ECOG performance status decline by 2 or greater for \>24 hours
5. Weight loss \>10%, Every 2 weeks while on treatment and for 30 days after the end of treatment
Two-year Overall Survival Rate, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, or censored at last known date of survival., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years|Two-year Disease-free Survival (DFS), Disease-free survival (DFS) is defined as the time from randomization to the first treatment failure (recurrence or death before recurrence)., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, and every 6 months after completion of treatment for 2 years, then annually for 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicity profile of cetuximab and bevacizumab when combined with gemcitabine, before and after capecitabine plus radiation and during capecitabine plus radiation in patients with completely-resected pancreatic carcinoma in the adjuvant setting.

II. To assess the safety profile of either cetuximab or bevacizumab plus gemcitabine in patients with resected pancreatic cancer.

III. To obtain tissue specimens from resections of patients enrolled on study for correlative studies and further evaluations.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate disease-free and overall survival for patients receiving either cetuximab or bevacizumab in combination with gemcitabine before and after capecitabine plus radiation.

II. To assess the safety profile for patients receiving either capecitabine plus cetuximab plus radiation, or capecitabine plus bevacizumab plus radiation.

III. To correlate changes in serum amphiregulin and TGF alpha to survival, DFS and rash for patients receiving cetuximab.

IV. To determine the 2-year survival rate for patients receiving either cetuximab plus gemcitabine before and after capecitabine plus cetuximab plus radiation, or bevacizumab plus gemcitabine before and after capecitabine plus bevacizumab plus radiation.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to degree of prior resection of the pancreatic tumor (R0 vs R1). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 60-120 minutes on day 1, once weekly, in weeks 1-24; gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on day 1, once weekly, in weeks 1-3, 13-15, 17-19, and 21-23; oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-5, 5 days a week, in weeks 5-10. Patients also undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, beginning in week 5 and continuing for approximately 5½ weeks (25 fractions).

Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 60-90 minutes on day 1 in weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, and 23. Patients also receive gemcitabine hydrochloride and capecitabine and undergo radiotherapy as in arm I.

In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 3 years.