Integrated Intervention for Breast Cancer Survivors With Diabetes
The purpose of this research study is to learn how therapy for breast cancer or DCIS/LCIS affects cognitive function and beliefs about cancer/DCIS/LCIS and diabetes (DM). For this portion of the study, the study team will integrate the information collected at previous follow-ups to create educational modules to change disease and medication beliefs and improve DM self-management behaviors (SMB). The educational counseling modules the study team plans to pilot test are rooted in the Common Sense Self-Regulation Model, a theory that posits that health behaviors are influenced by two parallel processes: cognitive (i.e., disease beliefs and expectations) and affective (i.e., emotional responses).
Diabetes|Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Integrated Intervention for Breast Cancer Survivors with Diabetes|BEHAVIORAL: Attention Control
Illness Perceptions Questionnaire (IPQ scores), It is a widely used multi-factorial pencil-and-paper questionnaire which assesses the five cognitive illness representations on a five-point Likert scale. The IPQ is an 80-item instrument, total scale from 0-10, with higher score indicating higher perception of effects on illness., At 6 months
Medication Adherence (MARS scores), To assess beliefs about diabetes medication adherence, the MARS, a validated measure, will be administered after the pilot study, at 6 months. MARS is a 10-item self-reported instrument. Total scores range from 0 (low likelihood of medication adherence) to 10 (high likelihood), with higher score indicating higher likelihood of medication adherence., At 6 months|Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities Assessment (SDSCA), The SDSCA measure is a brief self-report questionnaire of diabetes self-management that includes items assessing the following aspects of the diabetes regimen: general diet, specific diet, exercise, blood-glucose testing, foot care, and smoking.

SDSCA is a validated, self-reported measure assessing the number of days the recommended diabetes self-care activities are performed over the past 7 days in the areas of general diet, specific diet, exercise, blood-glucose testing, and foot care. Possible scores range from 0 to 7 days., At 6 months|International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), The purpose of the questionnaires is to provide common instruments that can be used to obtain internationally comparable data on health-related physical activity, a validated measure, will be administered at the end of the pilot study, at 6 months. The IPAQ results can be reported in categories (low activity levels, moderate activity levels or high activity levels) or as a continuous variable (MET minutes a week). MET minutes represent the amount of energy expended carrying out physical activity., At 6 months|Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression (CES-D), The Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression (CES-D) is a 20-item measure that asks participants to rate how often over the past week they experienced symptoms associated with depression, such as restless sleep, poor appetite, and feeling lonely. The CES-D also provides cutoff scores (e.g., 16 or greater) that aid in identifying individuals at risk for clinical depression. Full score from 0- 20, with higher score indicating more symptomology., At 6 months|Objective adherence with eCAP, The eCAP™ ECM has the regular pharmacy bottle look and feel patients are used to. The important difference is that eCap™ records real-time adherence data, tracking each opening with the date and time., At 7 months|Beliefs about Medicines Questionnaire (BMQ scores), To assess beliefs about medications, the BMQ, a validated measure, will be administered after the pilot study, at 6 months. The BMQ has two components: beliefs about overuse (score range from 3-15) and perceived risk of medicines (score range from 5-25), total scale 8-40, higher score indicates stronger beliefs in the concepts of the scale., At 6 months
The study team will develop and pilot an educational and counseling intervention to improve SMB among breast cancer survivors with comorbid DM. Development of Counseling Modules to Promote SMB: The study team will use triangulation analysis to integrate, compare, and contrast the quantitative and qualitative data in order to identify modifiable beliefs and emotional reactions that are associated with DM SMB and which could be the target of tailored education and counseling interventions. The study team will develop modules that address survivors' modifiable beliefs, provide coping skills for emotional reactions to illness, and suggest self-management strategies that have been found to be successful among peers. Triangulation analyses will be conducted following the methods outlined by Farmer beginning with sorting findings from qualitative and quantitative interviews, convergence coding and then convergence assessment, completeness assessment, researcher comparison and feedback.

Developing the Counseling and Education Approach: The CSM has been used to develop behavioral interventions for patients with low adherence to chronic disease SMB. It is similar to DiMatteo's evidence-based 3-factor model of strategies (provide correct information, ensure appropriate beliefs, and eliminate tangible barriers) that has been successfully used to improve medication adherence. The study team will develop 3 basic modules addressing determinants of SMB identified in the study team's quantitative and qualitative analyses and that could be integrated into a future comprehensive self-management support intervention: 1) Addressing DM and Breast Cancer Beliefs: The study team will use cognitive restructuring techniques to address misconceptions about breast cancer and DM and medication adherence. For example, some may believe that DM self-management is not important because breast cancer will likely recur and progress quickly. These views can be "reconstructed" by teaching survivors about timeline and consequences of breast cancer vs. DM allowing them to understand the disease timelines relative to each other. Moreover, the study team will clarify the potential impact of poor DM control on breast cancer outcomes. 2) Addressing Emotional Responses: Anxiety and worries will be addressed with normalizing statements (e.g., "Many patients feel that way..." "It is natural to be worried about side-effects..."). For those who report elevated levels of cancer (or DM) worry and distress, the study team will offer relaxation exercises, such as a deep breathing exercise coupled with stress reducing visualizations. 3) Practical Strategies to Instill Routine SMB: Qualitative interviews will elucidate various strategies that survivors have devised to support their SMB. These patient-identified approaches will be collated and explored with participants as potential strategies the participants might employ as well. Particularly for those with cognitive issues, strategies might include using external aids (i.e., texted phone reminders, alarms, pill box organizers, medication schedules, etc.), linking SMB to routine daily tasks, providing family support, etc. The study team will also use strategies to enhance information comprehension and retention by breast cancer survivors with cognitive dysfunction including teach-to-goal, multi-modal communication, and optimized formatting of print materials.