Tolerance and Efficacy Study of Second-line Surgery After Percutaneous Needle Aponeurotomy for Dupuytren's Disease.
As part of a graduated medical-surgical strategy, and in our practice, surgery for Dupuytren's disease appears as a second-line treatment indicated in a situation of failure after treatment with percutaneous needle aponeurotomy.The results of second-line surgery in terms of safety and efficacy have not been specifically evaluated in patients who underwent failed percutaneous needle aponeurotomy. This evaluation nevertheless appears necessary for the validation of a medical-surgical strategy during Dupuytren's disease.
Dupuytren's Disease|Surgical Incision
PROCEDURE: Surgical treatment
joint deformity, Primary end point: joint deformity of each treated joint at 3 months.• The development of the degree of joint extension malalignment at 3 months will be described both by the relative difference and by the absolute difference between the measurements at V0 and V3, overall and for each modality of the known prognostic factors: joint types (MCP versus PIP), age at onset of disease (\<50 years versus \>= 50 years), initial severity of disease., 3 months
Dupuytren's disease is characterised by retractile fibrosis of the superficial palmar aponeurosis that can result in irreversible flexing of the fingers and long-term disability. The treatment of Dupuytren's disease, whether medical or surgical, remains symptomatic. It is based in Europe on percutaneous needle aponeurotomy and surgical aponeurectomy. Its objectives are the reduction of the deformity of the fingers in flexum, and that of the incapacity that generates the illness. Percutaneous needle aponeurotomy for Dupuytren's disease was developed by Jean-Luc Lermusiaux in 1972 in the Rheumatology Department of the Lariboisière Hospital in Paris. Its efficiency, its tolerance, its simplicity, its low cost and the possibility of repeating it make it a benchmark treatment. Percutaneous needle aponeurotomy is, for many, if the existence of this technique is known and understood, the first-line treatment of Dupuytren's disease.

As part of a graduated medical-surgical strategy, and in our practice, surgery for Dupuytren's disease appears as a second-line treatment indicated in a situation of failure after treatment with percutaneous needle aponeurotomy. The safety and efficacy of the surgery was evaluated in the context of a first-line treatment of Dupuytren's disease. The results of second-line surgery in terms of safety and efficacy have not been specifically evaluated in patients who underwent failed percutaneous needle aponeurotomy. This evaluation nevertheless appears necessary for the validation of a medical-surgical strategy during Dupuytren's disease.