Extracorporeal Photopheresis and Mogamulizumab for the Treatment of Erythrodermic Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies the effect of extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) and mogamulizumab in treating patients with erythrodermic cutaneous T cell lymphoma (CTCL), a type of skin lymphoma. CTCL is a rare type of cancer that begins in the white blood cells called T cells. Erythrodermic is a widespread red rash that may cover most of the body. ECP is a medical treatment that removes blood with a machine, isolates white blood cells and exposes them to ultra violet light, then returns the cells to the body. Mogamulizumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving mogamulizumab with ECP may work together to kill the tumor cells directly (with mogamulizumab) and boost immune response to cancer (with ECP).
Folliculotropic Mycosis Fungoides|Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Sezary Syndrome|Stage IB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v8|Stage II Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v8|Stage IIA Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v8|Stage IIB Mycosis Fungoides and Sezary Syndrome AJCC v8|Transformed Mycosis Fungoides
PROCEDURE: Extracorporeal Photopheresis|BIOLOGICAL: Mogamulizumab|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be calculated as the proportion of evaluable patients that have confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as defined according to global response assessment. Exact 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for these estimates., Up to 1 year post treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity and adverse events will be recorded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 scale. Observed toxicities will be summarized by type, severity, date of onset, and attribution., Up to cycle 3 (each cycle = 28 days)
Complete response rate, Defined as the proportion of response-evaluable patients that have a documented CR., Up to 1 year post treatment|Time to response, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From initiation of study therapy to the first achievement of CR or PR, assessed up to 1 year|Duration of response, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From the first achievement of PR or CR to time of partial disease or death, assessed up to 1 year|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From initiation of study therapy to the first observation of disease relapse/progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From initiation of study therapy to death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity and adverse events will be recorded using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 scale. Observed toxicities will be summarized by type, severity, date of onset, and attribution., Up to 30 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess tolerability and overall response rate (ORR) of the (ECP)/mogamulizumab regimen in CTCL patients previously untreated with mogamulizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate complete response (CR) rate, time to response, duration of response, progression free survival, and overall survival in CTCL patients treated with the ECP/mogamulizumab combination.

II. To summarize the toxicities in CTCL patients treated with the ECP/mogamulizumab combination.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess quality of life (QoL) parameters before, during, and after the regimen.

II. To evaluate the anti-tumor and immunomodulatory effects of mogamulizumab in the CTCL microenvironment in skin and blood samples of erythrodermic CTCL patients.

III. To evaluate the immunomodulatory effects of ECP.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive mogamulizumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, of cycle 1 and days 1 and 15 of subsequent cycles. Beginning in cycle 2, patients also undergo ECP over 3 hours on days 8, 9, 22,and 23. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response (CR)/partial response (PR) after 6 cycles receive up to 6 additional cycles of treatment in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then for up to 12 months.