Nurse-assisted Intervention "eHealth@ Hospital -2-home"
A randomized controlled trial with non-communicable disease patients from two medical hospitals in Norway will be recruited prior to hospital discharge. The intervention group will participate in a 42-day nurse-assisted eHealth intervention "eHealth@ Hospital-2-Home". The intervention includes monitoring the patient's vital signs, self-reports of symptoms, health and well-being, communication between the patients and a Nurse Navigator in the hospital, and access to information about illness and health resources.
Non Communicable Diseases|Heart Failure|Colon Rectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: eHealth@Hospital-2-Home
Change in patient confidence in self-management activities., Change in the patient's confidence in self-management of heart failure or colon-rectal cancer disease between baseline and post-1 and 2 will be measured by the 6 items questionnaire Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease". Values: 1-10. A higher score mean a better outcome., Baseline (at discharge), post-1 (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention), and post-2 (6 months after baseline)|Change in heart failure self-care behavior, Change in heart failure patients' self-care behavior between baseline and post-1 and 2 will be measured by use of the European Heart Failure Self-care Behavior Scale. Value: 1-5. Higher score mean worse outcome., Baseline (at discharge), post-1, (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention) and post-2 (6 months after baseline)
Change in patient experience with treatment and self-management., Change in the patient's experience with treatment and self-management of heart failure and colon-rectal cancer between baseline and post-1 and 2 will be measured by the questionnaire "Patient Experience with Treatment and Self-management" with four dimensions of Medical information (Values:1-6); Monitoring health (Values: 1-6); Medications (Values 1- 5); Medical appointments (Values: 1-5). Higher scores means a worse outcome., Baseline (at discharge), post-1(42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention) , and post-2 (6 months after baseline)|Change in patient experience of health condition and how it affects daily life., Change in the patient's Health Related Quality of Life between baseline and post 1 and 2 will be measured with the European Quality of life 5 Dimensions -5 Levels questionnaire. Values: 1-5, were higher scores mean worse outcome, and on a visual analog scale from 0-100, were higher scores mean better outcome., Baseline (at discharge), post-1 (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention), and post-2 (6 months after baseline)|Change in patient experience of constructive support from healthcare personnel, Change in perceived support between baseline and post-1 and 2 will be measured using 12 items on constructive support. Values: 1-5-point. Higher score mean worse outcome., Baseline (at discharge), post-1 (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention), and post-2 (6 months after baseline)|Change in patient experience of shared decision-making., Change in the patient's experience of shared decision-making between baseline and post-1 and 2 will be measured using the 3 items questionnaire "CollaboRATE" Value: 0-10. Higher score mean better outcome., Baseline (at discharge), post-1 (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention), and post-2 (6 months after baseline)|Change in health care utilization, Change in health care utilization between baseline and post-1 and 2 will be measured using patients' self-reports of number of visits to the primary healthcare service (i.e., General Practitioner, municipal emergency department) and/or the specialist healthcare service (i.e., outpatient clinic). Fewer visits mean better outcome., Baseline (at discharge), post-1 (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention), and post-2 (6 months after baseline)|Days alive and out of hospital, Days alive and out of hospital will be measured by patient's self-report against data from hospital records, and calculated by subtracting number of days spent away from home due to heart failure or colon-rectal cancer related hospitalization from the day of the first reporting in the patient application and the six months following (post 2)., Post-2 (6 months after baseline)|Number of 30 days readmission for heart failure or colon-rectal cancer related incidents, Numbers of 30-days readmission for Heart failure or Colon-rectal cancer related incidents will be collected from the electronic health care record system in the hospital., Post-1 (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention).|Number of 90 days readmission for heart failure or colon-rectal cancer related incidents, Numbers of 30-days readmission for heart failure or colon-rectal cancer related incidents will be collected from the electronic health care record system in the hospital., Post-2 (6 months following baseline)|Number of 12 months readmission for heart failure or colon-rectal cancer related incidents, Numbers of 12-months readmission for heart failure or colon-rectal cancer related incidents will be collected from the electronic health care record system in the hospital., Post-3 (12 months following baseline)
Change in medication adherence in heart failure patients, Change in medication adherence will be measures using the Medication Adherence Reasons Scale-5 (MARS -5) containing 5 items., Post-1 (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention), and post-2 (6 months after baseline).|Patient satisfaction with using the technology., Patient satisfaction with using the technology will be measured by the Post-Study System Usability Questionnaire. Values: 1-7. Higher score mean worse outcome., Post-1 (42 days following baseline, at the end of the intervention)
Heart failure (HF) and colon-rectal cancer (CRC) are two non-communicable diseases (NCDs) prone to a high rate of hospital admissions and re-admissions, and complex health care needs. For many patients with HF and CRC, self-management following hospitalization can be a challenge, and they may leave the hospital unprepared for self-managing their disease at home. The randomized controlled trial with NCD patients from two medical hospitals in Norway. Patients will be recruited before hospital discharge. The intervention group will participate in a 42-day nurse-assisted intervention ""eHealth@ Hospital-2-Home"". The intervention includes monitoring of patients' vital signs, self-reports of symptoms, health and well-being, communication between the patients and a Nurse Navigator in the hospital, and access to information about illness and health resources. The control group will receive care as usual. Data collection will take place before the intervention (baseline), at the end of the intervention (post-1), and 6 months after baseline (post-2). Data will be according to intention to treat principles. Qualitative data will be analyzed using thematic analysis.