Treosulfan/Fludarabine/Low Dose TBI as a Preparative Regimen for Children With AML/MDS Undergoing Allo HCT
This is a prospective, open-label, nonrandomized, prospective clinical trial evaluating a fixed regimen of treosulfan, fludarabine and low-dose total body irradiation (TBI) in children with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT). The primary hypothesis is that HCT with a preparative regimen consisting of treosulfan, fludarabine and low-dose TBI will result in overall survival (OS) comparable to historical rates observed with conventional myeloablative regimens in the pediatric population. The preparative regimen will result in adequate incidence of neutrophil and platelet engraftment, and acceptable rates of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), relapse and survival. The pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of treosulfan in children will be comparable to that of adults previously studied.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)|Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS)
DRUG: Treosulfan
The primary endpoint will be overall survival (OS) at one year, The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety and preliminary efficacy of a transplant preparative regimen consisting of treosulfan, fludarabine and low-dose TBI for children with AML and MDS. The primary endpoint will be overall survival (OS) at one year., 1 year
Pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of Treosulfan in children < 40 kg, Drug plasma concentrations will be determined by: Cmax; half lives (t1/2); area under the curve (AUC); volumes of distribution (V); clearances (CL); mean residence times (MRT), 1 year|Non-Relapse Mortality, The event is death in continuous remission treating relapse as the competing risk. Patients alive and in remission at the time of last observation will be censored., 1 year|Disease-Free Survival, Disease-free survival is defined as the minimum time interval from transplant to relapse/recurrence of disease, to death or to last follow-up., 1 year|Neutrophil Engraftment, Neutrophil engraftment is defined as achieving a donor derived absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥ 500/μL for three consecutive measurements on different days. The first of the three days will be designated as the time to neutrophil engraftment., 1 year|Donor Chimerism, Peripheral blood chimerism (% of donor chimerism) in whole blood or fractions sorted for T-cell and myeloid subsets (CD3 and CD33) will be described on days 28, 42, 100, 180 and 365., 1 year|Acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), Incidences of grade II - IV and III - IV acute GVHD at days 42, 100, 180 and 365 will be graded according to the BMT CTN Manual of Procedures, 1 year|Relapse, Testing for recurrent malignancy in the blood, marrow or other sites will be used to assess relapse after transplantation. For the purpose of this study, relapse is defined by either morphological or cytogenetic evidence of AML or MDS consistent with pre-transplant features. The event for this endpoint is the time interval from transplant to relapse/recurrence of disease or to last follow-up. Death in remission is considered a competing risk., 1 year|Primary graft failure, This endpoint will be evaluated separately for bone marrow/peripheral blood and cord blood.

Primary graft failure is defined as lack of donor-derived neutrophil engraftment by 56 days. This time point was chosen to adjust for potential differences in time to engraftment that may be observed in cord blood vs. marrow/PBSC recipients. This outcome will be evaluated separately for bone marrow/peripheral blood and cord blood based on neutrophil count and peripheral blood chimerism obtained on day 42 ± 14. Relapse and death prior to neutrophil engraftment are considered competing risks for the endpoint of primary graft failure., 1 Year|Platelet engraftment of > 20,000/μL and >50,000/μL, Time to platelet engraftment is defined as the first day of a minimum of three consecutive measurements on different days such that the patient has achieved a platelet count \> 20,000/μL and \> 50,000/μL with no platelet transfusions in the preceding seven days. The first day of the three measurements will be designated as the day of platelet engraftment., 1 Year|Chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), Incidence of chronic GVHD on days 100, 180 and 365 will be scored according to the BMT CTN MOP, 1 Year|Secondary graft failure, Secondary graft failure is defined as initial donor-derived neutrophil engraftment followed by subsequent decline in ANC to \< 500/μL for three consecutive measurements on different days, and unresponsive to growth factor therapy, with loss of donor chimerism to \< 50% donor CD3 in peripheral blood., 1 year|Primary cause of death, Primary cause of death will be classified as: Relapse/Primary disease; GVHD; Infection; Organ Toxicity; Other, 1 year
The proposed study will evaluate a regimen using treosulfan, fludarabine and low-dose TBI in children and adolescents with AML or MDS undergoing allogeneic HCT. We expect this regimen to yield lower toxicity and at least equivalent rates of disease control and overall survival, compared to current standard myeloablative regimens. The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety and preliminary efficacy of a transplant preparative regimen consisting of treosulfan, fludarabine and low-dose TBI for children with AML and MDS. The primary endpoint will be overall survival (OS) at one year. Secondary objectives to be studied include: pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of treosulfan in children \< 40 kg, non-relapse mortality, disease-free survival, incidences of neutrophil and platelet engraftment, donor chimerism, acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and relapse.