SARC038: Phase 2 Study of Regorafenib and Nivolumab in Osteosarcoma
A phase 2 study of regorafenib in combination with nivolumab in patients with refractory or recurrent osteosarcoma.
Osteosarcoma|Osteosarcoma in Children|Osteosarcoma Recurrent|Osteosarcoma Metastatic
DRUG: Regorafenib 40 MG|DRUG: Regorafenib 20MG|DRUG: Nivolumab
Compare the 4-month progression-free survival rate to historical controls, To compare the 4-month progression-free survival (PFS) rate in patients with relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma administered regorafenib in combination with nivolumab to historical controls who received regorafenib alone, as per iRECIST. PFS will be determined as the time from the start of study treatment (Cycle 1, Day 1) to time of disease relapse, disease progression, or death from any cause, using iRECIST. The proportion of patients who do not experience one of these events at 4 months will be determined., Approximately 4 months
Objective Response Rate, To estimate the objective response rate (ORR) in patients with relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma administered regorafenib in combination with nivolumab, according to iRECIST. Objective tumor response, defined as achievement of nadir response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by iRECIST without prior progression any time during protocol therapy., Approximately 5 years|Progression-Free Survival, To estimate the PFS, including median PFS, in this population. Progression-free survival (PFS) defined as the time from study entry to disease relapse, disease progression, or death from any cause, using iRECIST. Patients without an event will be censored at the time of last disease follow-up., Approximately 5 years|Progression-Free Survival and Objective Response Rate, To compare the 4-month PFS rate and ORR to historical controls in this population, according to RECIST 1.1. Duration of response is defined as the time from a nadir tumor response of CR/PR to disease progression., Approximately 5 years|Describe adverse events, To describe the toxicities of regorafenib in combination with nivolumab in patients with relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma. Adverse events will be graded as defined in CTCAE v. 5.0 during each therapy course., Approximately 5 years|Estimate 1-year and 2-year Overall Survival, To estimate 1-year and 2-year overall survival (OS) in patients with relapsed or refractory osteosarcoma treated with regorafenib in combination with nivolumab. Overall survival, defined as the time from study entry to death from any cause. Patients who are alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the date of last follow-up., Approximately 5 years
This is a single arm, Simon two-stage historically controlled study to compare the 4 month progression-free survival rate of patients with relapsed/refractory osteosarcoma treated with regorafenib in combination with nivolumab to those who received regorafenib alone (historical control).