A Study of LY3415244 in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors
The goal of this study is to evaluate the safety of LY3415244, a PD-L1/TIM-3 bispecific antibody, administered as monotherapy to participants with advanced solid tumors.
Solid Tumor
DRUG: LY3415244
Phase1a: Number of Participants With LY3415244 Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A DLT was defined as an adverse event (AE) occurring during Cycle 1(28 days) that was considered at least possibly related to study drug, was considered dose-dependent, and fulfilled a criteria selected (using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events,version 4.0 \[NCI-CTCAE v 4.0\] \[NCI 2009\]):Grade 3 thrombocytopenia requiring platelet transfusion or grade 4 thrombocytopenia. Grade greater than or equal to (≥) 3 febrile neutropenia, anemia requiring a blood transfusion and any other Grade 4 hematologic toxicity that last \>7 days. Grade ≥ 3 colitis or noninfectious pneumonitis, Grade ≥ 3 fatigue lasting \>7 days, Grade ≥ 3 hypertension despite of maximal medical therapy. Grade 4 immune-related adverse event (irAE), liver transaminase elevation \>8x upper limit of normal (ULN) or total bilirubin \>3x ULN., Baseline through Cycle 1 (28 Day Cycle)
Phase1a: Pharmacokinetics (PK): Minimum Concentration (Cmin) of LY3415244, Cmin of LY3415244 was evaluated., Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1) and C1D15: pre-dose, 2 hours(h), 4h, 24h, 72h, 120h and 168h post-dose; C2D1, C2D15, C3D1, C3D15, C4D1, C4D15, C5D1, C5D15, C6D1 and C6D15: pre-dose|Phase1b: Objective Response Rate (ORR): Percentage of Participants Who Achieve Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), ORR was the percentage of participants achieving a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. CR defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of new lesions. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum LD), no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions. PD was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions., Baseline through Measured Progressive Disease (Up To 24 Months)|Phase1b: Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of response was defined using RECIST v. 1.1 criteria as the time from the date criteria were met for the first objectively recorded CR or PR until the first date criteria for PD were met or death from any cause. CR was the disappearance of all lesions and pathological lymph node reduction in the short axis to \<10 mm. PR was a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions. PD was a ≥20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions with the sum demonstrating an absolute increase of ≥5 mm; the appearance of ≥1 new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. Participants who were not known to have died and who did not have PD were censored at the date of the last tumor assessment prior to the date of any subsequent systemic anticancer therapy., Date of CR or PR to Date of Objective Disease Progression or Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 24 Months)|Phase1b: Time to Response (TTR), Data were not captured as study was terminated early and no participant were enrolled into Phase 1b expansion. Time to treatment response was defined as date of first dose of study drug to the date of confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) using Response evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.0) criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels in non-target lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline to Date of CR or PR (Up To 24 Months)|Phase1b: Disease Control Rate (DCR): Percentage of Participants With a Best Overall Response of CR, PR, and Stable Disease, DCR is the percentage of participants with a best overall response of CR, PR or stable disease (SD) as defined by RECIST v1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of new lesions.PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum LD),no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions.SD is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD) for target lesions, no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm,or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions,or 1 or more new lesions., Baseline through Measured Progressive Disease (Up To 24 Months)|Phase1b: Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival time was measured from treatment start until the date of objective progression as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors v1.1 (RECIST v1.1), or death from any cause. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions. Patients who have neither progressed nor died were censored at the day of their last radiographic tumor assessment, if available, or date of treatment start if no post-baseline radiographic assessment is available., Baseline to Objective Progression or Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 24 Months)
The goal of this study is to evaluate the safety of LY3415244, a PD-L1/TIM-3 bispecific antibody, administered as monotherapy to participants with advanced solid tumors.