0822GCC: Phase 2 Study of Efficacy and Safety of Apricoxib/Placebo With Docetaxel or Pemetrexed in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The primary objective is to determine the anti-tumor activity of the combination of apricoxib + either docetaxel (AP/DC) or pemetrexed (AP/PE) compared with placebo + either docetaxel (P/DC) or pemetrexed (P/PE) as measured by progression free survival in patients with Stage IIIb (pleural effusion)or Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Lung Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: apricoxib|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Docetaxel or Pemetrexed
Progression Free Survival, For determining progression-free survival, progression was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0). Progression was defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From the date of randomization until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented.
Patients diagnosed with advanced non-small cell lung cancer that has not responded to platinum-based chemotherapy are eligible to particvpate in this study.

Current standard treatments for this type of lung cancer are generally not effective in preventing the cancer from growing. The purpose of this study is to see if adding the drug apricoxib to standard chemotherapy is effective in treting NSCLC. Apricoxib is an investigational drug. Investigational means that it is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Laboratory studies suggest that apricoxib may be useful in the treatment of cancer . This is seen particularly when it is combined with chemotherapy drugs. However, this has not been proven in humans.

Laboratory evidence indicates that apricoxib may benefit patients whose disease over-produces a substance called COX-2. COX-2 can be detected in the urine as a substance called PGE-M (prostaglandin E metabolite). It is thought that patients who have a PGE-M level in the urine that decreases by at least half after taking apricoxib may benefit more than patients whose urine PGE-M decreases by less than half after apricoxib.

This study evaluated whether adding apricoxib to standard chemotherapy treatment will improve outcomes in patients with non-small cell lung cancer whose urine PGE-M decreases at least 50% after taking apricoxib. Apricoxib or placebo was added to either docetaxel or pemetrexed treatment.