Study of Oncolytic Virus in Combination With HX-008 and Radiotherapy in Melanoma Patients With Liver Metastasis
Malignant melanoma, is a kind of malignant tumor derived from melanocytes. It is common in skin, mucous membrane, eye choroid and other parts. Melanoma is one of the fastest growing malignant tumors with an annual incidence rate of 3-5%. In 2012, there were 232000 new cases of melanoma and 55000 deaths worldwide. Though, the incidence rate of melanoma is relatively low in China, it has been increasing rapidly in recent years. Melanoma has seriously endangering the health of Chinese people.

Patients with stage Ⅳ melanoma have a poor prognosis. According to statistics, the median survival time of stage M1a melanoma is 15 months, while stage M1b is 8 months. The median survival time of bone metastasis melanoma is 6 months, while liver and brain metastasis is 4 months. The overall median survival time of metastatic melanoma is only 7.5 months, and the 2-year survival rate is 15%.

For patients with advanced melanoma, dacarbazine is the only chemotherapy drug approved by NMPA, but its overall effective rate is only 13.4%, and the median survival time is 5.6 \~ 11 months.

Therapies(new drugs or new combination treatments)with higher remission rate and longer survival are urgently needed for patients with advanced melanoma.
Melanoma Stage IV
DRUG: Recombinant Oncolytic HSV-2 Therapeutic Injecta (Vero Cell) for Human Use (rHSV2hGM-CSF)|DRUG: Recombinant humanized anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody for injection|RADIATION: RT
ORR(6 months), ORR(6 month) is defined as the proportion of subjects with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) after 6 months of treatment., From first dose up to 6 months, approximately.
DCR(6 months), DCR(6 month) is defined as the proportion of subjects with complete response (CR) , partial response (PR) and stable disease(SD) after 6 months of treatment., From first dose up to 6 months, approximately.|PFS, PFS is defined as the time from the beginning of treatment to tumor progression or death from any cause., From first dose up to 12 months, approximately.|OS, OS is defined as the time from the beginning of treatment to death due to any cause., From first dose up to 12 months, approximately.|overall survival rate（one year）, defined as the proportion of patients who survived after 1 year of treatment, From first dose up to 12 months, approximately.|overall survival rate（two years）, defined as the proportion of patients who survived after 2 year of treatment, From first dose up to 24 months, approximately.
This study is a single-center, single-arm,open-label study to evaluate safety and efficacy of recombinant human GM-CSF herpes simplex virus（intratumoral injection） in combination with recombinant humanized anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody (intravenous injection) and radiotherapy for liver metastasis in stage IV melanoma.

This study is planned to enroll 15-30 patients with stage IV liver metastasis melanoma who lack or become refractory to standard treatment.

This study set scientific inclusion/exclusion criteria. Patients could be included in the group for treatment only after being strictly reviewed by researcher. The clinical research associate(CRA) will regularly monitor the research data during the whole study.