Estimation of Malignancy Rates Within Humedica Patient Populations Sampled to be Representative of Liraglutide Initiators and LEADER™ Trial Participants
This study is conducted in the United States of America. The aim of this study is to estimate incidence rates of all malignant neoplasms, specific subgroups of malignant neoplasms, and acute pancreatitis among cohorts of antidiabetic drug users standardized to be representative of LEADER™ trial participants or liraglutide initiators within the Humedica Electronic Health Record (EHR) database.
Diabetes|Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2
OTHER: No treatment given
Incidence of all malignant neoplasms, Follow-up is defined as the period following the date of the qualifying prescription or diagnosis (01 Jan 2008 at the earliest) and will vary depending on when this date occurs. The follow-up study period ends on 31 Dec 2013 (in total up to 6 years)
Incidence of specific malignant neoplasms - Breast (women only), Follow-up is defined as the period following the date of the qualifying prescription or diagnosis (01 Jan 2008 at the earliest) and will vary depending on when this date occurs. The follow-up study period ends on 31 Dec 2013 (in total up to 6 years)|Incidence of specific malignant neoplasms - Colorectal, Follow-up is defined as the period following the date of the qualifying prescription or diagnosis (01 Jan 2008 at the earliest) and will vary depending on when this date occurs. The follow-up study period ends on 31 Dec 2013 (in total up to 6 years)|Incidence of specific malignant neoplasms - Pancreatic, Follow-up is defined as the period following the date of the qualifying prescription or diagnosis (01 Jan 2008 at the earliest) and will vary depending on when this date occurs. The follow-up study period ends on 31 Dec 2013 (in total up to 6 years)|Incidence of specific malignant neoplasms - Thyroid, Follow-up is defined as the period following the date of the qualifying prescription or diagnosis (01 Jan 2008 at the earliest) and will vary depending on when this date occurs. The follow-up study period ends on 31 Dec 2013 (in total up to 6 years)|Incidence of specific malignant neoplasms - Medullary Thyroid, Follow-up is defined as the period following the date of the qualifying prescription or diagnosis (01 Jan 2008 at the earliest) and will vary depending on when this date occurs. The follow-up study period ends on 31 Dec 2013 (in total up to 6 years)|Incidence of acute pancreatitis, Follow-up is defined as the period following the date of the qualifying prescription or diagnosis (01 Jan 2008 at the earliest) and will vary depending on when this date occurs. The follow-up study period ends on 31 Dec 2013 (in total up to 6 years)
This study is conducted in the United States of America. The aim of this study is to estimate incidence rates of all malignant neoplasms, specific subgroups of malignant neoplasms, and acute pancreatitis among cohorts of antidiabetic drug users standardized to be representative of LEADER™ trial participants or liraglutide initiators within the Humedica Electronic Health Record (EHR) database.