Individualized Radiation Dose Prescription in HNSCC Based on F-MISO-PET Hypoxia-Imaging
The trial evaluates the value of radiation dose escalation based on Hypoxia detection by 18F_misonidazole Positron Emission Tomography (18F-MISO-PET) for primary radiochemotherapy of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Patients negative for human papillomavirus (HPV) and with hypoxic tumours after 2 weeks of radiochemotherapy are randomized to completion of standard radiochemotherapy or radiochemotherapy with escalated radiation dose. An additional interventional arm includes a carbon ion boost. HPV positive tumours can be included in a control arm. Primary endpoint is local tumour control 2 years after radiochemotherapy.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: dose-escalated radiochemotherapy|RADIATION: dose-escalated radiochemotherapy with carbon ion boost|RADIATION: standard radiochemotherapy
local tumour control, Local tumour control (MRI, CT, PET or clinical evaluation) in the randomized dose-escalated arm compared to the randomized non dose escalated arm (arms 1 and 2)., Local tumor control 2 years after end of treatment
late toxicity, late toxicity based on CTCAE 5.0, 30 days to 2 years after radiochemotherapy|survival, Overall survival, 2 years after radiochemotherapy|quality of life EORTC QLQ-C30/HN-35, EORTC-QLQ (C30 and HN-35) Sheets (General for tumour diseases and specific for head and neck cancer), regularly up to 2 years after radiochemotherapy|acute toxicity, acute toxicity based on CTCAE 5.0, during treatment and up to 30 days after radiochemotherapy
Previous preclinical data and a prospective validated patient cohort have shown that patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, whose tumours are hypoxic after 2 weeks of primary radiochmeotherapy, have a significantly lower chance of locoregional tumour control. The multi-center trial evaluates the value of radiation dose escalation based on hypoxia detection by 18F_misonidazole Positron Emission Tomography (18F-MISO-PET) for primary radiochemotherapy of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Patients negative for human papillomavirus (HPV) and with hypoxic tumours after 2 weeks of radiochemotherapy are randomized to completion of standard radiochemotherapy (70 Gy) or radiochemotherapy with escalated radiation dose (77 Gy). An additional interventional arm includes a carbon ion boost to 77 Gy. HPV positive tumours can be included in a control arm. Primary endpoint is local tumour control 2 years after radiochemotherapy. Secondary endpoints include acute and late toxicity (CTCAE 5.0), regional tumor control, overall survival, disease free survival, distant metastases, kinetics analysis of dynamic FMISO-PET scans, Quality of life (QoL). The hypothesis is that local tumour control 2 years after radiochemotherapy is higher in the dose escalated compared to the control arm.