An Intensive Program With Quadruplet Induction and Consolidation Plus Tandem Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation in Newly Diagnosed High Risk Multiple Myeloma Patients
According to international guidelines, upfront therapy for transplant eligible myeloma patients should include triplet induction containing proteasome inhibitor and immunomodulatory agent, autologous stem cell transplant, PI+Imid based triplet consolidation and lenalidomide maintenance. Despite this approach, virtually all MM patients experience disease relapse, especially those with High Risk disease defined by adverse cytogenetic abnormalities (i.e. del(17p), or t(14;16) or t(4;14)) detected by FISH and/or SNP arrays. Indeed, HR myeloma is associated with poorer progression free survival and overall survival and frontline therapy should therefore be improved for this subset of HR patients. The primary objective of this prospective multicenter, open label, interventional phase 2 trial is to evaluate the feasibility of an intensive program including quadruplet induction and consolidation, tandem autologous stem cell transplantation and maintenance in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients presenting with HR cytogenetic. Quadruplet induction and consolidation include carfilzomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and daratumumab. Maintenance will include lenalidomide and daratumumab. Secondary objectives will include efficacy parameters (i.e. response rate, minimal residual disease, safety, progression free survival, overall survival).
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Daratumumab|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Percentage of patients receiving the second Autologous Stem Cell Transplant, 15 months
Number of adverse events, 48 months|Number of responses, 48 months|Number of MRD, 48 months|Number of death, 84 months|Percentage of time to progression, 84 months|Number of patients having survival without progress, 84 months|Percentage duration of response, 84 months|Number of cells collected, 168 days|percentage of value of biological prognostic factors, 48 months
According to international guidelines, upfront therapy for transplant eligible myeloma patients should include triplet induction containing proteasome inhibitor and immunomodulatory agent, autologous stem cell transplant, PI+Imid based triplet consolidation and lenalidomide maintenance. Despite this approach, virtually all MM patients experience disease relapse, especially those with High Risk disease defined by adverse cytogenetic abnormalities (i.e. del(17p), or t(14;16) or t(4;14)) detected by FISH and/or SNP arrays. Indeed, HR myeloma is associated with poorer progression free survival and overall survival and frontline therapy should therefore be improved for this subset of HR patients. The primary objective of this prospective multicenter, open label, interventional phase 2 trial is to evaluate the feasibility of an intensive program including quadruplet induction and consolidation, tandem autologous stem cell transplantation and maintenance in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients presenting with HR cytogenetic. Quadruplet induction and consolidation include carfilzomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone and daratumumab. Maintenance will include lenalidomide and daratumumab. Secondary objectives will include efficacy parameters (i.e. response rate, minimal residual disease, safety, progression free survival, overall survival).