Performance of MammoAlert™, Point of Care System, for the Screening of Breast Cancer in Women 18 Years of Age or Older
POC Medical Systems has developed a Point of Care system for the screening of breast cancer in the general population. Via a proprietary algorithm, the MammoAlert™ is expected to determine breast cancer's risk level for a subject by identifying the presence in plasma of known biomarkers. The present study aims to determine the Sensitivity and Specificity of the test in plasma samples of subjects of whom the status vis-à-vis breast cancer is known.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: MammoAlert Screening Test
Screening performance (i.e., sensitivity and specificity), Screening performance: comprises the sensitivity and specificity of MammoAlert™. It represents the performance of the diagnostic test and is therefore independent of the prevalence of the disease in the studied sample of patients., Screening performance will be calculated at 4-months
Predictive values & likelihood ratios, Positive predictive value: the probability that a subject has the disease given that the test result is positive will be estimated by: TP/(TP+FP).

Negative predictive value: the probability that a subject does not have the disease given that the result of the test is negative will be estimated by TN/(TN+FN).

Likelihood ratio (LR): the likelihood that a given test result would be expected in a patient with the target disorder compared to the likelihood that that same result would be expected in a patient without the target disorder., Predictive values & likelihood ratios will be calculated at 4-months
Accuracy of test, The probability that the test result reflects the true disease state will be estimated as the proportion of cases for which the test result is correct: (TP+TN)/(TP+FP+TN+FN)., Accuracy of test will be calculated at 4-months|Reproducibility, The ability of MammoAlert™ to reveal the same result when repeatedly performed on the same sample, assessed repeatedly by the same reader, Reproducibility will be calculated at 4-months
2400 subjects will be screened for breast cancer in seven enrolling sites across the country to ensure diverse ethnicity.

"Positive" subjects should be confirmed breast cancer positive by Mammography and/or biopsy. Breast cancer positive samples will be compared to the control group of samples obtained from women attending clinics for non-cancerous related pathology.

Both Positive and Negative Predictive Values will be evaluated to determine accuracy and sensitivity of the screening test.

Subjects whose known cancer positive or negative status do not match the test report will be followed up as appropriate, on case by case basis to identify false positive and false negative results.