Comparative Study of Scalp Cooling System and Chemical Cold Cap (COHAIR Study)
This is a phase III, single-center, prospective, open-label, randomized,controlled study
Primary Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Scalp cooling system|DEVICE: Cold cap
The effects on the prevention of alopecia of two methods, To compare the effects of scalp cooling system and chemical cold cap on the prevention of chemotherapy-induced alopecia in breast cancer patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy containing anthracycline followed paclitaxel. To assess hair status, a total of three photographs of patients'hair in the both groups were taken by study personnel before the start of first chemotherapy cycle, within 2 days before the start of paclitaxel chemotherapy and within 1 week after the last chemotherapy cycle. Photographs captured hair from the top of head. Patients assessed and estimated the percentage of hair loss using WHO classification of acute and subacute toxicity of anticancer drugs. Success was defined as WHO criteria alopecia grade I (\<25% hair loss) or grade II (25%-50% hair loss). Failure was defined as WHO criteria alopecia grade III (\>50% hair loss) or grade IV. The primary efficacy end point was assessed by clinicians who were independent., One year after neoadjuvant chemotherapy
Qualify of life, To compare the effects of scalp cooling system and chemical cold cap on the quality of life. Quality of life was measured using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Breast CancerSpecific Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30（EORTC QLQ-C30） administered at baseline and at the time of the last chemotherapy cycle., One year after neoadjuvant chemotherapy|Psychological stress, The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) administered at baseline and at the time of the last chemotherapy cycle was used to assess anxiety and depression., One year after neoadjuvant chemotherapy
To conduct a prospective randomized controlled study comparing the effect of scalp cooling system (DigniCap) and chemical cold cap on preventing chemotherapy-induced alopecia in a group of breast cancer patients receiving standard anthracycline followed paclitaxel regimens. To obtain the exact data on the role of different methods of preventing alopecia in Chinese women with breast cancer.

PASS 11 software was used to calculate the sample size. According to the results of previous studies, the hair retention rate of the cold cap group was 67.7%, the hair retention rate of the scalp cooling system group was 50.5%, α=0.05，Power=0.8. The sample size was calculated to be at least 128 cases in each group, 256 cases in total.