Molecular Phenotyping in Predicting Response in Patients With Stage IB-III Esophageal Cancer Receiving Combination Chemotherapy
This randomized pilot phase II trial studies how well molecular phenotyping works in predicting response in patients with stage IB-III esophageal cancer who are receiving carboplatin and paclitaxel or oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil. Studying the genes in a patients tumor cells before and after chemotherapy may help in understanding if there are specific features of the tumor cells that make a person more or less likely to respond to treatment and how these features may be affected by treatment.
Stage IB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIIC Esophageal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Fluorouracil|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Relative Expression Differences in Individual Genes and Gene Profiles Between Patients Responding and Not Responding to Treatment, as Assessed by (18F) FDG-PET, Baseline gene profiles will be compared for 10 (18F) FDG-PET responders vs. 15 (18F) FDG-PET non-responders per treatment regimen using a t-test and p-values will be corrected for multiple comparisons by calculating the false discovery rate (FDR) p-value (filtering on a FDR p-value \< 0.05). Top genes identified will be tested in combination for their sensitivity and specificity using logistic regression models., Baseline|Relative Expression Differences in Individual microRNAs and microRNA Profiles Between Patients Responding and Not Responding to Treatment, Assessed by (18F) FDG-PET, Baseline microRNA profiles will be compared for 10 (18F) FDG-PET responders vs. 15 (18F) FDG-PET non-responders per treatment regimen using a t-test and p-values will be corrected for multiple comparisons by calculating the FDR p-value (filtering on a FDR p-value \< 0.05). Top microRNAs identified will be tested in combination for their sensitivity and specificity using logistic regression models., Baseline|Biological Pathway Perturbation Upon Exposure to Chemotherapy, Predefined signatures of biological pathway activities will be evaluated in order to identify pathway perturbation upon exposure to chemotherapy. Significant pathway modulations upon brief exposure will then be evaluated for association with clinical response using non-parametric tests such as the Wilcoxon signed-rank test. In all cases, statistical correction to account for multiple hypothesis testing will be employed and pathways with a false discovery rate of 10% or lower will be considered as significant., Up to 6 weeks
Relative Expression Differences Between Baseline and Post-induction Chemotherapy Specimens of Individual Genes and Gene Expression Profiles, Changes in baseline and post-treatment gene expression levels will be calculated between (18F) FDG-PET responders and non-responders, filtering for expression level changes of \>= 0.20. Differences in expression level change per treatment regimen will be calculated using a t-test and p-values will be corrected for multiple comparisons by calculating FDR p-value (filtering on a FDR p-value \< 0.05). Top genes identified will be tested in combination for their sensitivity and specificity using logistic regression models to predict responsiveness or resistance to each individual treatment regimen., Baseline to post-induction (36-43 days)|Relative Expression Differences Between Baseline and Post-induction Chemotherapy Specimens of Individual microRNAs and microRNA Profiles, Changes in baseline and post-treatment microRNA levels will be calculated between (18F) FDG-PET responders and non-responders, filtering for expression level changes of \>= 0.20. Differences in expression level change per treatment regimen will be calculated using a t-test and p-values will be corrected for multiple comparisons by calculating FDR p-value (filtering on a FDR p-value \< 0.05). Top microRNAs identified will be tested in combination for their sensitivity and specificity using logistic regression models to predict responsiveness or resistance to each individual treatment regimen., Baseline to post-induction (36-43 days)|Relative Expression Differences in Baseline Individual Genes and Gene Expression Profiles Between Patients Achieving and Not Achieving a Pathologic Complete Response Following Treatment, Baseline gene expression profiles for 8 pathologic complete responders vs. 17 patients not achieving a pathologic complete response per treatment regimen using a t-test will be compared. Top genes will be tested in combination for their sensitivity and specificity using logistic regression models to predict achievement of a pathologic complete response vs. patients not achieving a pathologic complete response., Baseline|Relative Expression Differences in Baseline Individual microRNAs and microRNA Profiles Between Patients Achieving and Not Achieving a Pathologic Complete Response Following Treatment, Baseline microRNA profiles for 8 pathologic complete responders vs. 17 patients not achieving a pathologic complete response per treatment regimen using a t-test will be compared. Top microRNAs will be tested in combination for their sensitivity and specificity using logistic regression models to predict achievement of a pathologic complete response vs. patients not achieving a pathologic complete response., Baseline|Relative Expression Differences Between Baseline and Post-induction Gene Expression Levels/Profiles Between Patients Achieving and Not Achieving a Pathologic Complete Response Following Treatment, Changes in baseline and post-treatment gene expression level/profiles will be compared between 8 pathologic responders vs. 17 patients not achieving a pathologic complete response per treatment regimen, filtering for expression levels changes of 0.20 and above. Differences in expression level changes per treatment regimen will be calculated using a t-test. Top genes will be tested in combination for their sensitivity and specificity using logistic regression models to predict achievement of a pathologic complete response vs. patients not achieving a pathologic complete response., Baseline to post-induction (36-43 days)|Relative Expression Differences Between Baseline and Post-induction microRNA Levels/Profiles Between Patients Achieving and Not Achieving a Pathologic Complete Response Following Treatment, Changes in baseline and post-treatment microRNA level/profiles will be compared between 8 pathologic responders vs. 17 patients not achieving a pathologic complete response per treatment regimen, filtering for expression levels changes of 0.20 and above. Differences in expression level changes per treatment regimen will be calculated using a t-test. Top microRNAs will be tested in combination for their sensitivity and specificity using logistic regression models to predict achievement of a pathologic complete response vs. patients not achieving a pathologic complete response., Baseline to post-induction (36-43 days)|Occurrence of Grade 3 or 4 Toxicity Per the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.0, Toxicities will be summarized as the percentage of patients experiencing each type and grade of event according to treatment group. Patients who receive at least one dose of treatment will be included in the analysis., Up to 30 days after the end of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate gene and micro ribonucleic acid (miRNA) expression levels in patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma prior to receiving chemotherapy and identify relative expression differences between patients responding and not responding to treatment with carboplatin and paclitaxel or 5-fluorouracil (fluorouracil) and oxaliplatin as measured by fluorodeoxyglucose F-18 (\[18F\] FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the impact of treatment on expression patterns of both genes and miRNAs in patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma following treatment with either carboplatin and paclitaxel or 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin, and identify expression patterns associated with treatment response and resistance as assessed by (18F) FDG-PET.

II. To evaluate the expression patterns of genes and miRNAs in patients with esophageal adenocarcinoma prior to and following a full neoadjuvant combined-modality treatment program with either carboplatin and paclitaxel or 5-fluorouracil and oxaliplatin chemotherapy plus radiation, and identify relative expression differences between patients achieving a pathologic complete response and patients not achieving a pathologic complete response.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I:

INDUCTION: Patients receive carboplatin (IV) and paclitaxel intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 8 of a 21 day cycle for two cycles (total of 6 weeks).

CHEMORADIATION THERAPY: Patients receive carboplatin (AUC=2) and paclitaxel (50 mg/m2) intravenously once weekly for five weeks throughout the duration of their radiation which is daily (Monday through Friday). This will be given in combination with radiation therapy to a total of 50.4Gy using 180cGy fractions.

ARM II:

INDUCTION: Patients receive mFOLFOX6 where they get oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 intravenously on day 1, leucovorin 400 mg/m2 IV on day 1, 5-FU 400 mg/m2 IV on day 1 and then 5FU at 2400 mg/m2 IV to be administered over a 46 hour period. This is repeated every 2 weeks for 3 cycles (total of 6 weeks).

CHEMORADIATION THERAPY: Patients receive chemoradiation with oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 IV on day 1 every 2 weeks for a total of 3 cycles (6 weeks) as well as 5FU 300 mg/m2/day over 96 hours via continuous infusion each week of radiation for a total of 6 weeks. This will be given in combination with radiation therapy to a total of 50.4Gy using 180cGy fractions.

SURGERY: In both arms, approximately 4-10 weeks after completion of chemoradiation therapy, patients undergo esophagectomy at the discretion of the treating team.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then periodically thereafter.