Treatment Decision Making in African American Women Diagnosed With Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This study evaluates what influences treatment decision-making in African American women with triple negative breast cancer. The study also aims to learn about the influence of information sources that support this decision-making process.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Discussion|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Survey Administration
Proportion of patients who accept the recommended treatment plan, Patient demographics and clinical characteristics will be summarized using numerical summaries for continuous variables and proportions for categorical variables. The proportion of patients who accept the recommended treatment plan will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the acceptance of treatment recommendations by African American women diagnosed with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the association of beliefs about chemotherapy, self-efficacy, and cancer-specific psychological distress with intention to follow through with treatment.

II. Evaluate the association of intention, Reliance on Formal or Informal Resources, and decisional conflict as predictors of final treatment decision.

III. Evaluate the association of Reliance on Formal or Informal Resources as a moderator of the relationship between intention and final treatment decision.

OUTLINE:

Patients participate in a standard of care treatment planning meeting over 3 hours with members of the multidisciplinary treatment team including, the oncologist, radiologist, oncology surgeon, and social worker. Patients then complete surveys over 20 minutes and within 30 days later. Some patients may participate in interviews over 30 minutes.