A Study of Tucatinib (MK-7119) in Combination With Trastuzumab and Capecitabine in Participants With Previously Treated Locally Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 Positive (HER2+) Breast Carcinoma (MK-7119-001)
The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tucatinib in combination with trastuzumab and capecitabine in participants with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic HER2+ breast cancer who have had prior treatment with taxane anti-cancer agent, trastuzumab, pertuzumab and trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1). The primary hypothesis is that the confirmed objective response rate (cORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as determined by independent central review (ICR) for the combination of tucatinib, trastuzumab and capecitabine, is greater than 20%.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Tucatinib|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Capecitabine
Confirmed Objective Response Rate(cORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 Determined by Independent Central Review (ICR): Japanese Participants, cORR was defined as percentage of participants with confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), per RECIST version 1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeter(mm). PR: a \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters. Only response assessments before first documented progressive disease(PD) or new anti-cancer therapies were considered. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study(included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Participants with missing data were considered non-responders. cORR was determined by ICR. Two-sided 90% exact confidence interval was based on Clopper-Pearson method., From date of first dose until first documented disease progression or start of new anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first (maximum up to 17.8 months)
Confirmed Objective Response Rate(cORR) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by ICR: All Participants, cORR was defined as percentage of participants with confirmed CR or PR, per RECIST version 1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: a \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters. Only response assessments before first documented PD or new anti-cancer therapies were considered. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Participants with missing data were considered non-responders. cORR was determined by ICR. Two-sided 90% exact confidence interval was based on Clopper-Pearson method., From date of first dose until first documented disease progression or start of new anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first|Confirmed Objective Response Rate(cORR) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by Investigator Assessment (INV): Japanese Participants, cORR was defined as percentage of participants with confirmed CR or PR, per RECIST version 1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: a \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters. Only response assessments before first documented PD or new anti-cancer therapies were considered. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Participants with missing data were considered non-responders. cORR was determined by INV. Two-sided 90% exact confidence interval was based on Clopper-Pearson method., From date of first dose until first documented disease progression or start of new anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first|Confirmed Objective Response Rate(cORR) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by INV: All Participants, cORR was defined as percentage of participants with confirmed CR or PR, per RECIST version 1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: a \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters. Only response assessments before first documented PD or new anti-cancer therapies were considered. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Participants with missing data were considered non-responders. cORR was determined by ICR. Two-sided 90% exact confidence interval was based on Clopper-Pearson method., From date of first dose until first documented disease progression or start of new anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by INV: All Participants, DOR was defined as the time from the first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to documented PD per RECIST version 1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: a \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters. Only response assessments before first documented PD or new anti-cancer therapies were considered. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Only those participants who achieved a confirmed response will be included in the analysis. DOR was determined by INV., From date of first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to documented PD, or death from any cause whichever occurred first|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by INV: Japanese Participants, DOR was defined as the time from the first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to documented PD per RECIST version 1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: a \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters. Only response assessments before first documented PD or new anti-cancer therapies were considered. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Only those participants who achieved a confirmed response will be included in the analysis. DOR was determined by INV., From date of first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to documented PD, or death from any cause whichever occurred first|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by ICR: All Participants, DOR was defined as the time from the first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to documented PD per RECIST version 1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: a \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters. Only response assessments before first documented PD or new anti-cancer therapies were considered. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Only those participants who achieved a confirmed response will be included in the analysis. DOR was determined by ICR., From date of first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to documented PD, or death from any cause whichever occurred first|Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by ICR: Japanese Participants, DOR was defined as the time from the first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to documented PD per RECIST version 1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR: a \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters. Only response assessments before first documented PD or new anti-cancer therapies were considered. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. Only those participants who achieved a confirmed response will be included in the analysis. DOR was determined by ICR., From date of first objective response (CR or PR that is subsequently confirmed) to documented PD, or death from any cause whichever occurred first|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by ICR: All Participants, PFS time was defined as the time from the first date of study treatment to the date of documented disease progression using RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Participants who were alive and had not progressed at the time of the analysis were censored at the time of their last tumor assessment documenting absence of PD. Participants lacking an evaluation of tumor response after their start of study treatment had their event time censored at 1 day. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. PFS was determined by ICR., From date of first dose to the date of documented disease progression or death from any cause whichever occurred first or censoring date|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by ICR: Japanese Participants, PFS time was defined as the time from the first date of study treatment to the date of documented disease progression using RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Participants who were alive and had not progressed at the time of the analysis were censored at the time of their last tumor assessment documenting absence of PD. Participants lacking an evaluation of tumor response after their start of study treatment had their event time censored at 1 day. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. PFS was determined by ICR., From date of first dose to the date of documented disease progression or death from any cause whichever occurred first or censoring date|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by INV: All Participants, PFS time was defined as the time from the first date of study treatment to the date of documented disease progression using RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Participants who were alive and had not progressed at the time of the analysis were censored at the time of their last tumor assessment documenting absence of PD. Participants lacking an evaluation of tumor response after their start of study treatment had their event time censored at 1 day. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. PFS was determined by INV., From date of first dose to the date of documented disease progression or death from any cause whichever occurred first or censoring date|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST Version 1.1 Determined by INV: Japanese Participants, PFS time was defined as the time from the first date of study treatment to the date of documented disease progression using RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Participants who were alive and had not progressed at the time of the analysis were censored at the time of their last tumor assessment documenting absence of PD. Participants lacking an evaluation of tumor response after their start of study treatment had their event time censored at 1 day. PD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. PFS was determined by INV., From date of first dose to the date of documented disease progression or death from any cause whichever occurred first or censoring date|Overall Survival: All Participants, OS was defined as the time from start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored at the last date the participant was known to be alive. Participants lacking data beyond their start of study treatment had their survival time censored at 1 day., From start of study treatment to date of death from any cause or censoring date|Overall Survival: Japanese Participants, OS was defined as the time from start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored at the last date the participant was known to be alive. Participants lacking data beyond their start of study treatment had their survival time censored at 1 day., From start of study treatment to date of death from any cause or censoring date|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events and Treatment Related Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events: All Participants, An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigational participant administered a medicinal product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. Serious adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; life-threatening (immediate risk of death); required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); congenital anomaly/birth defect or that was considered as an important medical event. Treatment related adverse events and serious adverse events was judged by investigator., From date of first dose of study treatment to up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Serious Adverse Events and Treatment Related Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events: Japanese Participants, An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigational participant administered a medicinal product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. t intervention indicated and Grade 5 indicates death related to AE. Participants who discontinued treatment due to AEs were captured under AEs leading to treatment discontinuation. SAE was any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; life-threatening (immediate risk of death); required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); congenital anomaly/birth defect or that was considered as an important medical event. Treatment related adverse events and serious adverse events was judged by investigator., From date of first dose of study treatment to up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Number of Participants With Abnormalities in Laboratory Parameters: All Participants, From date of first dose of study treatment to up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Number of Participants With Abnormalities in Laboratory Parameters: Japanese Participants, From date of first dose of study treatment to up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Number of Participants With Dose Modifications and Treatment Discontinuations: All Participants, From date of first dose of study treatment to up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Number of Participants With Dose Modifications and Treatment Discontinuations: Japanese Participants, From date of first dose of study treatment to up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Changes in Vital Signs: All Participants, From date of first dose of study treatment to up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Changes in Vital Signs: Japanese Participants, From date of first dose of study treatment to up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
The goal of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of tucatinib in combination with trastuzumab and capecitabine in participants with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic HER2+ breast cancer who have had prior treatment with taxane anti-cancer agent, trastuzumab, pertuzumab and trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1). The primary hypothesis is that the confirmed objective response rate (cORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as determined by independent central review (ICR) for the combination of tucatinib, trastuzumab and capecitabine, is greater than 20%.