Plerixafor After Radiation Therapy and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed High Grade Glioma
This pilot phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of plerixafor after radiation therapy and temozolomide and to see how well it works in treating patients with newly diagnosed high grade glioma. Plerixafor may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. Giving plerixafor after radiation therapy and temozolomide may be an effective treatment for high grade glioma.
Adult Ependymoblastoma|Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Adult Medulloblastoma|Adult Mixed Glioma|Adult Oligodendroglial Tumors|Adult Pineoblastoma|Adult Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor (PNET)
RADIATION: radiation therapy|DRUG: temozolomide|DRUG: plerixafor|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Dose-limiting Toxicity, Dose Limiting Toxicity is defined as defined as any hematologic or on-hematologic adverse events grade 3 or higher using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 with a suspected causal relationship to Plerixafor (including electrocardiogram changes indicative of ischemia, ventricular tachycardia), Up to 30 days post plerixafor|Participants Alive and Without Disease Progression At 6 Months After the Start of the Irradiation, Progression free survival based on the Response Assessment for Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria, using both clinical examinations and MRIs with and without contrast summarized with Kaplan Meier estimates., 6 months from start of irradiation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of using continuous infusion Plerixafor subsequent to irradiation in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).

II. To assess the efficacy of Plerixafor as measured by progression free survival at 6 months (PFS6) from the start of irradiation.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of plerixafor followed by a phase II study.

Within 4 weeks of surgery, patients undergo radiation therapy and receive temozolomide orally (PO) over 42 days. Beginning 8 days prior to completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive plerixafor intravenously (IV) continuously for 2-4 weeks. Patients also receive temozolomide PO 5 days a month beginning 35 days after completion of radiation therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 5 years.