Radiolabeled Monoclonal Antibody Therapy, Fludarabine Phosphate, and Low-Dose Total-Body Irradiation Followed by Donor Stem Cell Transplant and Immunosuppression Therapy in Treating Older Patients With Advanced Acute Myeloid Leukemia or High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 when given together with fludarabine phosphate and low-dose total-body irradiation followed by donor stem cell transplant and immunosuppression therapy in treating older patients with acute myeloid leukemia or high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes that cannot be controlled with treatment. Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies, such as iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8, can find cancer cells and carry cancer-killing substances to them. Giving chemotherapy, such as fludarabine phosphate, and total-body irradiation before a donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer or abnormal cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. The donated stem cells may also replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining cancer cells. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can also make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving radiolabeled monoclonal antibody therapy together with fludarabine phosphate and total-body irradiation before the transplant together with cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil after the transplant may stop this from happening.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts|Refractory Anemia With Excess Blasts in Transformation|Refractory Anemia With Ringed Sideroblasts|Refractory Cytopenia With Multilineage Dysplasia|Secondary Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
RADIATION: iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8|RADIATION: total-body irradiation|PROCEDURE: allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose of radiation delivered via 131I-BC8 antibody when combined with the nonmyeloablative regimen of fludarabine phosphate, TBI, and CSP/MMF, Up to day 100 following transplant|Rates of donor chimerism resulting from this combined preparative regimen, Correlated with estimated radiation doses delivered to hematopoietic tissues via antibody., Up to day 84 following transplant|Disease response, Up to 11 years|Duration of remission, Up to 11 years|incidence of DLT at the estimated MTD of 131I-BC8, Up to day 100 following transplant
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of radiation delivered via 131I-BC8 antibody (iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8) when combined with the non-myeloablative regimen of fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate), 2 Gy total-body irradiation (TBI) + cyclosporine (CSP)/mycophenolate (MMF) in elderly patients with advanced acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or high risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).

II. To determine the rates of donor chimerism resulting from this combined preparative regimen, and to correlate level of donor chimerism with estimated radiation doses delivered to hematopoietic tissues via antibody.

III. To determine, within the limits of a phase I study, disease response and duration of remission.

IV. To assess dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) at the estimated maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of 131I-BC8 (24 Gy) in order to gain more confidence that the DLT rate is acceptable at this level.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8.

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8 intravenously (IV) on day -12 and fludarabine phosphate IV on days -4 to -2. Patients undergo total-body irradiation on day 0.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) or IV twice daily (BID) on days -3 to 56 with taper to day 80 (for patients with a related donor) OR days -3 to 100 with taper to day 177 (for patients with an unrelated donor) in the absence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO or IV thrice daily (TID) on days 0 to 27 (for patients with a related donor) OR on days 0 to 40 with taper to day 96 (for patients with an unrelated donor) in the absence of GVHD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 9, and 12 months, every 6 months for 1 year, and then yearly thereafter.