A Study of Paclitaxel With or Without Ramucirumab (LY3009806) in Participants With Gastric or Gastroesophageal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the study drug known as ramucirumab in participants with gastric and gastroesophageal cancer.
Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Gastric Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Ramucirumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first evidence of disease progression as defined by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) v1.1 or death from any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions. If a participant does not have a complete baseline disease assessment, then the PFS time was censored at the date of randomization, regardless of whether or not objectively determined disease progression or death has been observed for the participant. If a participant was not known to have died or have objective progression as of the data inclusion cutoff date for the analysis, the PFS time was censored at the last adequate tumor assessment date., Randomization to the Date of the First Radiographically Documented Progressive Disease or Death from Any Cause (Up To 30 Months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause. For each participant who is not known to have died as of the data-inclusion cutoff date for overall survival analysis, OS time was censored on the last date the participant is known to be alive., Randomization to Date of Death from Any Cause (Up To 37 Months)
Time to Progression (TTP), TTP was time from the date of randomization to the date of radiographic progression (according to RECIST v.1.1). If a participant died due to any reason without radiographic progression, TTP is censored at the last adequate tumor assessment. Target lesions: Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of lesions vs the smallest sum on study (the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm); or the appearance of new lesion(s). Non target lesions: PD: Unequivocal progression of existing lesions or the appearance of new lesion(s)., Randomization to the Date of the First Radiographically Documented Progressive Disease (Up To 30 Months)|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (Objective Response Rate [ORR]), ORR was the percentage of participants achieving a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. CR defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of new lesions. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum LD), no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions. PD was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions., Randomization to Objective Disease Progression (Up To 30 Months)|Duration of Objective Response (DoR), DOR was the time from the date of first evidence of complete response or partial response to the date of objective progression or the date of death due to any cause, whichever is earlier. CR and PR were defined using the RECIST v1.1. CR defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of new lesions. PR defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum LD), no progression of non-target lesions, and no appearance of new lesions. If a responder was not known to have died or have objective progression as of the data inclusion cutoff date, duration of response was censored at the last adequate tumor assessment date. PD was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions., Date of Objective Response to the Date of the First Radiographically Documented Progressive Disease or Death Due to Any Cause (Up To 24 Months)|Best Change From Baseline on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), EORTC QLQ-C30 v3.0 was a self-administered questionnaire with multidimensional scales that measures global health status, 5 functional domains (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social) and symptom scales of fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties. A linear transformation is applied to standardize the raw scores to range between 0 and 100 per developer guidelines. For functional domains and global health status, scores range from 0 to 100 with higher scores representing a better level of functioning. For symptoms scales, scores range from 0 to 100 with higher scores representing a greater degree of symptoms. Least square (LS) mean value of changing from baseline to short-term follow up was estimated from the mixed model that was controlled for Treatment, visit, Treatment\*Visit and baseline., Baseline, 30 Days After Treatment Discontinuation (Up To 20 Months)|Worst Change From Baseline on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), EORTC QLQ-C30 v3.0 was a self-administered questionnaire with multidimensional scales that measures global health status, 5 functional domains (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social) and symptom scales of fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties. A linear transformation is applied to standardize the raw scores to range between 0 and 100 per developer guidelines. For functional domains and global health status, scores range from 0 to 100 with higher scores representing a better level of functioning. For symptoms scales, scores range from 0 to 100 with higher scores representing a greater degree of symptoms. LS Mean value of changing from baseline to short-term follow up was estimated from the mixed model that was controlled for Treatment, visit, Treatment\*Visit and baseline., Baseline, 30 Days After Treatment Discontinuation (Up To 20 Months)|Change From Baseline in Participant-Reported European-Quality of Life-5 Dimension Instrument-3 Levels (EQ-5D-3L) Index Score, EQ-5D-3L is a descriptive system of health-related quality of life states consisting of 5 dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression) and each of which has 3 levels of severity (no problems/some or moderate problems/extreme problems) within a particular EQ-5D dimension. A regression equation defines a utility value for these health states to generate an index score. The possible values for index score range from -0.594 (severe problems in all 5 dimensions) to 1 (no problem in all dimensions) on a scale where 1 represents the best possible health state., Baseline, 30 Days After Treatment Discontinuation (Up To 20 Months)|Change From Baseline in Participant-Reported EQ-5D-3L Visual Analog Scale (VAS) Score, EQ-5D-3L is a descriptive system of health-related quality of life states consisting of 5 dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression) and each of which has 3 levels of severity (no problems/some or moderate problems/extreme problems) within a particular EQ-5D dimension. The EQ-5D VAS is used to record a participant's rating for his/her current health-related quality of life state on the day of questionnaire administration and is captured on a scale of 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state)., Baseline, 30 Days After Treatment Discontinuation (Up To 20 Months)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the study drug known as ramucirumab in participants with gastric and gastroesophageal cancer.