A Clinical Study of Intismeran Autogene (V940) Plus Pembrolizumab in People With High-Risk Melanoma (V940-001)
The purpose of this study is to learn if intismeran autogene which is an individualized neoantigen therapy (INT; formerly, called messenger ribonucleic acid \[mRNA\]-4157) with pembrolizumab (MK-3475) is safe and prevents cancer from returning in people with high-risk melanoma. Researchers want to know if intismeran autogene with pembrolizumab is better than receiving pembrolizumab alone at preventing the cancer from returning.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Intismeran autogene|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Placebo
Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS), RFS is defined as the length of time from when the participant starts the study until either the cancer comes back, or the cancer spreads as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause., Up to approximately 74 months
Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS), DMFS is the length of time from when the participant starts the study until either the cancer spreads from where it started to other parts of the body as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause., Up to approximately 85 months|Overall-Survival (OS), OS is the length of time that people are alive after joining the study., Up to approximately 85 months|Number of Participants Who Experience an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is a health problem that happens or worsens during a study. Number of participants who experience an AE will be reported., Up to approximately 68 weeks|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is a health problem that happens or worsens during a study. Number of participants who discontinue study treatment will be reported., Up to approximately 56 weeks|Change from Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" will be scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores will be standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate a better overall health status. Per protocol, the change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 85 months|Change from Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning will be scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores will be standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate a better level of physical functioning. The change from baseline in Physical Functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 85 months|Change from Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Role Functioning (Items 6 and 7) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "Were you limited in doing either your work or other daily activities during the past week?" and " Were you limited in pursuing your hobbies or other leisure time activities during the past week?" will be scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a more impaired level of role functioning. Change from baseline in the role functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 6-7) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 85 months
The purpose of this study is to learn if intismeran autogene which is an individualized neoantigen therapy (INT; formerly, called messenger ribonucleic acid \[mRNA\]-4157) with pembrolizumab (MK-3475) is safe and prevents cancer from returning in people with high-risk melanoma. Researchers want to know if intismeran autogene with pembrolizumab is better than receiving pembrolizumab alone at preventing the cancer from returning.