Cardiovascular Events Among Adults Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Aggressive B-Cell Lymphoma Treated With Standard of Care Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cell Therapy
This study characterizes cardiac events following standard of care chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy in patients with aggressive B-Cell Lymphoma that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). The results from this study may allow a description of these events, their managements and outcome.
Recurrent Aggressive B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Aggressive B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
To characterize cardiac events following standard of care (SOC), Summary statistics will be provided for patient demographic, and clinical and biological variables. Continuous variables will be presented as mean +/- standard deviation or median (interquartile range), as appropriate based on normality, and categorical variables will be presented as percentages. Continuous data will be compared with the use of unpaired Student's t-tests or Wilcoxon rank-sum tests, as appropriate. Categorical data will be compared using the chi-square or the Fisher exact test. Univariate analyses will be performed to determine the association between the time of cytokine release syndrome symptoms and tocilizumab administration with cardiovascular events. Statistical significance will be defined using a 2-tailed p value =\< 0.05., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To characterize cardiac events following chimeric antigen receptor T cell therapy (CAR-T), Summary statistics will be provided for patient demographic, and clinical and biological variables. Continuous variables will be presented as mean +/- standard deviation or median (interquartile range), as appropriate based on normality, and categorical variables will be presented as percentages. Continuous data will be compared with the use of unpaired Student's t-tests or Wilcoxon rank-sum tests, as appropriate. Categorical data will be compared using the chi-square or the Fisher exact test. Univariate analyses will be performed to determine the association between the time of cytokine release syndrome symptoms and tocilizumab administration with cardiovascular events. Statistical significance will be defined using a 2-tailed p value =\< 0.05., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To characterize cardiac events following standard of Care (SOC) chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cell therapy in adult patients with relapsed/refractory aggressive B-cell lymphoma.

OUTLINE:

Patients' medical records are reviewed retrospectively.