The Application of DNA Nanomachines for Detecting microRNA in Blood for the Diagnosis of Pancreatic Cancer. Diagnosis of Pancreatic Cancer
Previous research has shown that microRNAs in the blood can serve as biomarkers for early pancreatic cancer, with potential applications including detection, differential diagnosis, and prognosis prediction of pancreatic cancer. The current primary method for detecting microRNAs is RT-qPCR, but this process requires repeated temperature cycling, which demands high precision from the equipment. As an alternative, isothermal nucleic acid amplification technology does not require expensive temperature control instruments. Our research team has developed various isothermal nucleic acid amplification strategies for microRNA sensing platforms, applied to biological sample detection. This study combines the circular strand displacement amplification strategy with DNA nanomachines to develop a fluorescence sensing platform that performs dual signal amplification at a constant temperature. It is designed to detect pancreatic cancer-related microRNAs, exploring its role and potential applications in the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer patients.
Pancreas Adenocarcinoma|MicroRNA
GENETIC: MicroRNA (mir-642b-3p)
Ratio of the target microRNA in patients with and without pancreatic adenocarcinoma., 24 hours
Previous research has shown that microRNAs in the blood can serve as biomarkers for early pancreatic cancer, with potential applications including detection, differential diagnosis, and prognosis prediction of pancreatic cancer. The current primary method for detecting microRNAs is RT-qPCR, but this process requires repeated temperature cycling, which demands high precision from the equipment. As an alternative, isothermal nucleic acid amplification technology does not require expensive temperature control instruments. Our research team has developed various isothermal nucleic acid amplification strategies for microRNA sensing platforms, applied to biological sample detection. This study combines the circular strand displacement amplification strategy with DNA nanomachines to develop a fluorescence sensing platform that performs dual signal amplification at a constant temperature. It is designed to detect pancreatic cancer-related microRNAs, exploring its role and potential applications in the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer patients.