Osimertinib In EGFR Mutant Lung Cancer
This research study is studying a targeted therapy as a possible treatment for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with an EGFR mutation.

The names of the study drug involved in this study is:

- Osimertinib (Tagrisso)
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Osimertinib
Mechanisms of resistance to Osimertinib, Evaluated by comparing the genomic changes using targeted next generation sequencing in the post-osimertinib tumor to the pre-treatment tumor specimen., 4 Months
Best objective response, Best objective response will be evaluated via RECIST 1.1 criteria. RECIST1.1 measurements of CT scans will be measured every 2 cycles on treatment to determine the objective response rate for patients being treated with osimertinib., 6 months|Overall Response Rate, Defined as the proportion of patients with best response of CR or PR per investigator assessment using RECIST 1.1. start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started., 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Time from registration to documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to determine the progression-free survival of patients enrolled on protocol and treated with combination osimertinib and selumetinib., 2 years|Overall survival, Survival follow-up with clinic visits or phone calls will be used to monitor for overall survival from time of study randomization to death from any cause. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to calculate overall survival., 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

This research study is studying a targeted therapy as a possible treatment for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with an EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor) genetic mutation. The EGFR gene produces a protein that helps cells divide. Specific changes or a mutation in the genetic information causes abnormal cell division and can lead to lung cancer. Patients who have NSCLC with an EGFR gene mutation can be treated by drugs called EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR TKIs). They may stop (or "inhibit") the effect of the mutation in the EGFR gene.

- Osimertinib has been approved by the FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) for this disease.