Vorinostat and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vorinostat and capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Vorinostat may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of vorinostat and capecitabine in treating patients with unresectable or metastatic solid tumors.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: vorinostat
Maximum tolerated doses of vorinostat (SAHA) and capecitabine, 1 cycle|Safety and tolerability as assessed by CTCAE v3.0, All cycles
Response rate as assessed by RECIST criteria, Every 2 cycles|Molecular markers as assessed by molecular analysis, Cycle 1|Survival, progression free survival every 2 cycles
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of vorinostat (SAHA) and capecitabine in patients with metastatic or unresectable solid tumors.
* Determine the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

Secondary

* Correlate the clinical effects with the pharmacokinetic effects of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

Patients receive oral vorinostat (SAHA) once or twice daily and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) receive 2 courses beyond documentation of CR. Patients achieving a partial response receive 2 courses beyond documentation of best response.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA and capecitabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 12 patients are treated at the MTD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3-4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 18-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 6-10 months.