Avelumab in Relapsed and Refractory Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
The AVAIL-T trial is a trial to find out how effective avelumab is at treating patients with primary T-cell lymphoma that is refractory to or has relapsed following initial treatment.
T-Cell Lymphoma Relapsed|T-Cell Lymphoma Refractory
DRUG: Avelumab
Best Overall Response Rate During the First 8 Cycles of Treatment, Best overall response rate (Completed response \[CR\] + partial remission \[PR\]) during the first 8 cycles of treatment will be assessed using contrast-enhanced CT scans of the neck, chest, abdomen and pelvis, using the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. In this study CR = complete disappearance of all detectable clinical evidence of disease, so involved lymph nodes had regressed on CT scan to normal size. PR = al least a 50% decrease in size of the involved lymph nodes measured on CT scans., 8 cycles (224 days)
Toxicity- Number of Patients, Toxicity assessed using CTCAE v4.0 will be defined as the number of patients who experience one or more grade 3 or 4 adverse event or serious adverse event of any grade, During treatment of 8 cycles (224 days)|Toxicity- Proportion of Patients, Toxicity assessed using CTCAE v4.0 will be defined as the proportion of patients who experience one or more grade 3 or 4 adverse event or serious adverse event of any grade, During treatment of 8 cycles (224 days)|Maximum Percentage Change in Sum of Product of Diameters, Maximum percentage change in the sum of the product of diameters (SPD) of target tumour masses assessed by contrast-enhanced CT scans of the neck, chest, abdomen and pelvis, using the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma., During trial treatment of 8 cycles (224 days), comparing baseline with cycles 3, 6 and 8|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the time from first documented response (CR or PR) until relapse/progression, as determined by the Revised Response Criteria, or death. Patients who are relapse/progression free and alive at time of final analysis will be censored at date last seen., 2 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time from date of registration to the date of disease progression or date of death from any cause. Patients not reaching progression or death at the time of analysis will be censored at the last date they were known to be alive and progression free., 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as the time from date of registration to the date of death from any cause. Patients discontinuing the study, lost to follow-up or still alive at the end of the study will be censored at the date of last follow-up., Deaths were collected up to 2 years
The AVAIL-T trial is designed to find out how effective avelumab is at treating patients with primary T-cell lymphoma that is refractory to or has relapsed following initial treatment. Up to 36 people will be taking part in the AVAIL-T trial at hospitals across the United Kingdom. All patients on the trial will be recruited over 2 years and receive up to 8 cycles of avelumab treatment. Avelumab is an anti-PDL1 (programmed cell death receptor ligand 1) antibody that will be given as an infusion once every 2 weeks in cycles lasting 28 days. The trial will be looking at the response to avelumab, by measuring the change in the tumour size using CT scans, and seeing how long that response is maintained. The trial will also look at toxicity, overall survival, and progression free survival.

In addition we will analyse blood samples and samples of the cancer to understand better how the cancer behaves. This may guide the investigators in developing better treatments in the future.