Vorinostat and Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin in Treating Older Patients With Previously Untreated Acute Myeloid Leukemia
RATIONALE: Vorinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by interfering with various proteins needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO), can block cancer growth in different ways. GO finds cancer cells and helps kill them by carrying a cancer-killing substance to them. Giving vorinostat together with gemtuzumab ozogamicin may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving vorinostat together with gemtuzumab ozogamicin works in treating older patients with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia.
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: gemtuzumab ozogamicin|DRUG: vorinostat|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Number of Participants Achieving CR or CRi With Induction Therapy (Good-risk Group), after completion of induction therapy, administered every 21-42 days for up to two courses|Number of Participants Alive at Day 30 (Poor-risk Group), At day 30
Relapse-free Survival (Good- and Poor-risk Group), At relapse|Number of Participants Achieving CR or CRi With Induction Therapy (Poor-risk Group), after completion of induction therapy, administered every 21-42 days for up to two courses|Number of Participants Alive at Day 30 (Good-risk Group), At day 30
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the CR/CRi rate after treatment with vorinostat plus GO. (Good risk group) II. To determine the 30-day survival after treatment with vorinostat plus GO. (Poor risk group)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the frequency and severity of regimen-associated toxicities, along with 30-day survival after start of treatment with vorinostat plus GO. (Good risk group) II. To determine the CR/CRi rate after treatment with vorinostat plus GO, and estimate the frequency and severity of regimen-associated toxicities. (Poor risk group) III. To investigate the relapse-free survival of patients who achieve CR/CRi and receive maintenance therapy on this study.

IV. To define cellular factors associated with clinical response to GO/vorinostat and determine the mechanisms underlying the synergistic effect between GO and vorinostat on primary AML cells (in vitro correlative and mechanistic studies).

OUTLINE:

REMISSION INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive oral vorinostat once daily on days 1-9 and gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 8. Treatment repeats every 15-22 days for up to 3 courses.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning within 60 days after the completion of remission induction therapy, patients receive oral vorinostat once daily on days 1-9 and gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 8.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive oral vorinostat once daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses.

All treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.