Staying Strong and Healthy During Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) for Men
The purpose of this study is to learn if lifestyle changes and counseling along with standard medical care, compared to standard medical care alone, can prevent heart problems and diabetes in men who are receiving ADT for prostate cancer treatment.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Program|BEHAVIORAL: Diet and Nutrition Coaching|OTHER: Usual Care with Attention
Change in LDL, Change from Baseline to Month 12
Change in Body Mass Index (BMI), Change from Baseline to Month 6|Change in Body Mass Index (BMI), Change from Baseline to Month 12|Change in Lipid Profile, Change from Baseline to Month 6|Change in Lipid Profile, Change from Baseline to Month 12|Change in Waist/Hip Circumference, Change from Baseline to Month 6|Change in Waist/Hip Circumference, Change from Baseline to Month 12|Change in Glucose, Change from Baseline to Month 6|Change in Glucose, Change from Baseline to Month 12|Change in Health Related Quality, Quality of life will be measured using the SF-12 and Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite. The two are scored together and result in a composite score. Scores can range from 0-100. The higher the score the better the quality of life., Change from Baseline to Month 6|Change in Health Related Quality, Quality of life will be measured using the SF-12 and Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite. The two are scored together and result in a composite score. Scores can range from 0-100. The higher the score the better the quality of life., Change from Baseline to Month 12
Prostate cancer is a very treatable cancer but those treatments can have long-lasting effects. A kind of hormone therapy called Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) is often used along with other treatments like radiation and has been shown to improve survival. However, ADT can have negative effects especially on the heart and metabolism (the body's system for using and storing energy).

Participation in this study will last for up to 12 months. The study is looking at two different approaches to treating men who are undergoing ADT:

1. Staying Strong \& Healthy Intervention + Usual Care
2. Usual Care

All participants will have blood drawn and be asked questions about how they are feeling during their participation. The men in the Staying Strong \& Healthy Intervention group will also take part in a diet and exercise program and receive counseling from a member of the study team.