Living Donor Liver Transplantation for Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
This study is supposed to make liver transplantation available for treatment in well selected patients suffering from non-resectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Donor organ shortage is currently the main problem for organ transplantation world-wide. Thus, the particular indication "non-resectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma" is currently excluded in terms of transplantation. Given those circumstances, transplantation via living donation might be the best option. This procedure does not reduce the deceased donor organ supply because living donation is the primary treatment option in these patients (not subsidiary).
Living Donor Liver Transplantation|Liver Transplantation|Neoadjuvant Therapy
PROCEDURE: Living donor liver transplantation
Five year overall survival, Survival from time of transplantation to time of death or last follow up, Five years
Recurrence-free survival, Survival from time of transplantation to time of death or first evidence of recurrence to disease, Five years|Donor and Recipient morbidity, Donor and Recipient morbidity (both according to the Clavien-Dindo classification), Five years
Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (iCCA) is classified among primary liver tumors and has demonstrated a consistently increasing incidence in recent years. Due to the poor long-term survival rates reported in older studies, liver transplantation continues to be a contraindication in the curative treatment of iCCA. The persistent shortage of organs also necessitates that each new indication for transplantation be carefully evaluated and critically scrutinized. Currently, partial resection remains the preferred treatment modality, although at diagnosis, only approximately 20% of cases are amenable to this approach. Post-partial resection, the five-year survival rate is observed to be between 20-34%. In cases of irresectability, palliative chemotherapy often remains the only option, typically associated with a poor prognosis. Numerous studies have demonstrated that long-term outcomes following liver transplantation for iCCA have evolved and improved over the years. In a meta-analysis by Ziogas et al., data from a total of 18 studies (involving 355 patients) and one registry study (385 patients) were analyzed. The pooled 1-, 3-, and 5-year survival rates were 75%, 56%, and 42%, respectively. Meanwhile, the pooled 1-, 3-, and 5-year recurrence-free survival rates were 70%, 49%, and 38%, with an overall recurrence rate of 43%. A potential reason for this marked improvement may be attributed to the introduction of neoadjuvant therapy. Studies by Hu et al. and Lunsford et al. have demonstrated that the utilization of neoadjuvant therapy is associated with significantly improved survival outcomes. The study aims to conduct a prospective, non-randomized study (LIVINCA) to further explore the effects of living-donor liver transplantation in the treatment of unresectable neoadjuvant treated (chemotherapy AND selective internal radiotherapy) intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.