NSAID Effects on Clinical and Imaging Breast Biomarkers
This study has two purposes. One is to determine if daily sulindac decreases breast density; a risk factor for breast cancer development. The second is to determine whether sulindac reduces pain and stiffness associated with regular use of aromatase inhibitors given for the treatment of breast cancer.
Inflammation|Cancer|Pain|Hypertension
DRUG: Sulindac
Change in Breast Density Measured as Fat to Water Ratio by Magnetic Resonance Imaging, Adjusted estimates of relative change in percent breast density by magnetic resonance imaging, Baseline and 12 months
Muscle and Joint Pain and Stiffness, The endpoint for arthralgia is change from baseline in Total Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis (WOMAC) Index scores on a scale at 12 months. The Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Index is a self-administered questionnaire consisting of 24 items divided in 3 subscales: Pain, Stiffness, and Physical Function. Scores on the scale range from 0 to 96 for total WOMAC where 0 represents the best health status and 96 the worst possible status., Baseline and 12 months
Change in Mean Arterial Blood Pressure at 12 Months, Adjusted estimate of change in mean arterial blood pressure in each study arm at 12 months in each study arm., Change in blood pressure between Baseline and 12 months
To accomplish our study aims, we will conduct a phase II, single are trial of sulindac in postmenopausal women with early stage ER+ breast cancer who are receiving an aromatase inhibitor as adjuvant hormonal therapy. Approximately 75 breast cancer patients, stable on AI therapy (minimum of 3 months) for the treatment of their breast cancer will receive sulindac 150 mg bid for 12 months. Breast imaging will be conducted at baseline, 6 and 12 months.

The primary endpoint of the study will be change in the appearance of the contralateral, uninvolved breast as measured by quantitative Fat Water Ratio (FWR-MRI) mapping at 12 months in response to sulindac therapy. As changes in breast density in the contralateral, uninvolved breast will be the primary endpoint of the study, patients with bilateral breast cancer or those patients undergoing bilateral mastectomies or reconstruction surgery will be ineligible. Secondary endpoints of the trial include 12 month change in general pain and joint specific stiffness and pain as assessed by the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC). A number of exploratory endpoints are planned and include comparison of MRI measures of the breast, tissue biomarkers, and pain at 6 months as early indicators of 12 month responses. For the tissue biomarkers, core needle biopsies will be obtained in a subset of women who consent to the procedure from the uninvolved contralateral breast at baseline and at 6 months. Tissue studies will include characterization of tissue histology (graded by cellularity and stromal elements) and molecular measures of proliferation and apoptosis.