A Study Evaluating Lanreotide as Maintenance Therapy in Patients With Non-Resectable Duodeno-Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors (REMINET)
This European, prospective, multicentre, double-blind randomised study will evaluate the effect of lanreotide (120 mg every 28 days until disease progression) versus placebo in patients with metastatic/locally advanced, non-resectable, duodeno-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours.
Metastatic/Locally Advanced, Non-resectable, Duodeno-pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumours
DRUG: lanreotide|DRUG: Placebo
Proportion of Patients Alive and Progression-free at 6 Months, The primary endpoint for this phase II study was the proportion of pts alive and progression-free at 6 months after randomisation, evaluated according to the results of the imaging assessment done by the investigator in line with RECIST 1.1 criteria., 6 months
Progression-Free Survival, The progression-free survival is the time from inclusion to the first radiological progression or death (all causes). For patients alive without progression date of last news will be considered.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions compared the little sum of diameters observed durin the study (NADIR), or a measurable increase in a nontarget lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival considered all deaths, and time was calculated from randomisation to death., 2 years after the end of the treatment
This is a European, prospective, multicentre, double-blind randomised study evaluating lanreotide (120 mg every 28 days until disease progression) versus placebo in patients with metastatic/locally advanced, non-resectable, duodeno-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours.

Depending on the phase II results, the study may be continued into phase III. The treatment and follow-up of patients will be the same in phase II and phase III.

After the first-line treatment, patients will be randomly assigned with a 1:1 ratio to receive either lanreotide or placebo. The study treatment should be initiated within 6 weeks following the confirmation date of stable disease or objective response.

Treatment period:

For each patient, the investigational products (lanreotide or placebo) will be provided according to a double-blind procedure until disease progression or toxicity, in accordance with the protocol.

The estimated average treatment duration for all patients is 12 months.

Follow-up period:

To evaluate overall survival, patients in phase II will have a minimum follow-up period of 12 months; if the study continues to phase III, these patients will have a maximum follow-up period of 10 years. Phase III patients will have a minimum follow-up period of 5 years.