Rovalpituzumab Tesirine (SC16LD6.5) in Recurrent Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of rovalpituzumab tesirine (SC16LD6.5) at different dose levels in patients with small cell lung cancer whose cancer has progressed or recurred following standard chemotherapy. Once a safe and tolerable dose is determined, the anti-cancer activity of SC16LD6.5 will be assessed by measuring the extent of tumor shrinkage. SC16LD6.5 is an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC). The antibody (SC16) targets a protein that appears to be expressed on the surface of most small cell lung cancers that have been assessed using an immunohistochemical assay. The drug, D6.5, is a very potent form of chemotherapy, specifically a DNA-damaging agent, that is cell cycle independent. ADC's theoretically provide more precise delivery of chemotherapy to cancer cells, possibly improving effectiveness relative to toxicities.
Recurrent Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Rovalpituzumab tesirine (SC16LD6.5)
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Rovalpituzumab Tesirine, MTD was determined by testing increasing doses from 0.05 mg/kg up to 0.8 mg/kg on Day 1 of every 21-day or 42-day cycle, Phase 1a cohorts 1 to 8. MTD will be defined as the dose level immediately below the dose level at which ≥ 2 of the first 3 subjects per cohort (or ≥ 2 of 6 subjects) during the first cycle experience a study drug related dose limiting toxicity (DLT)., The DLT period was defined as either 21 or 42 days following the first dose of Rovalpituzumab tesirine during dose escalation (Phase 1a), depending on Cycle length.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Overall response was assessed at each visit post-baseline based on a subject's lesion measurements or assessments (complete response \[CR\], partial response \[PR\], stable disease \[SD\], progressive disease \[PD\], or not evaluable as defined by RECIST v1.1, plus an additional category of early death). The best overall response was then determined. A subject was defined as having an objective response if they had a best overall response of CR or PR prior to receiving any subsequent anticancer therapy; confirmed response is confirmation of CR or PR at least 4 weeks from the initial determination per RECIST v1.1. Subjects with a post-baseline assessment were included in the calculations for objective response rate (ORR).

Outcome is based on data reported by Investigator (INV); available and evaluable radiographic scans were collected retrospectively for review by an Independent Review Committee (IRC)., From first dose of rovalpituzumab tesirine to last event, up through study completion (on average approximately 4 months).|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR) was defined as the number of months from the initial CR or PR to the time of disease progression or death, whichever occurred first.

Outcome is based on data reported by Investigator (INV); available and evaluable radiographic scans were collected retrospectively for review by an Independent Review Committee (IRC)., From first dose of Rovalpituzumab tesirine to last event timepoint, up through study completion (on average approximately 4 months, but up to 6.51 months).|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical Benefit is defined as a subject with best Overall Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) prior to receiving any subsequent anticancer therapy; as defined by RECIST version 1.1. CBR is defined as the proportion of subjects with Clinical Benefit based on assessment of overall response. CBR will be presented as a number and percentage with 95% confidence bounds. Any subjects not exhibiting a response (CR or PR or SD) are considered non-responders.

Outcome is based on data reported by Investigator (INV); available and evaluable radiographic scans were collected retrospectively for review by an Independent Review Committee (IRC)., From first dose of Rovalpituzumab tesirine to last event timepoint, up through study completion (on avergae approximately 4 months).|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the number of months from the first day of study drug administration to disease recurrence or progression, or death on study.

Outcome is based on data reported by Investigator (INV); available and evaluable radiographic scans were collected retrospectively for review by an Independent Review Committee (IRC)., From first dose of rovalpituzumab tesirine to last event timepoint, up through study completion (approximately 4 months on average, but up to 14.46 months).|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to death. Subjects who were alive were censored at the date of last known alive., From first dose of Rovalpituzumab tesirine to last event, up through study completion (on average approximately 5-7 months, but up to 14.6 months).|Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Rovalpituzumab Tesirine Antibody Drug Conjugate (ADC), The maximum serum concentration (Cmax; measured in μg/mL) is the highest concentration that a drug achieves in the blood after administration in a dosing cycle., From Day 1 of first dose to End of Dose Cycle|Area Under the Serum Concentration-time Curve (AUC) of Rovalpituzumab Tesirine ADC, The area under the serum concentration-time curve (AUC; measured in μg•d/mL) is a method of measurement to determine the total exposure of a drug in blood serum., From Day 1 of first dose to End of Dose Cycle
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of rovalpituzumab tesirine (SC16LD6.5) at different dose levels in patients with small cell lung cancer whose cancer has progressed or recurred following standard chemotherapy. Once a safe and tolerable dose is determined, the anti-cancer activity of SC16LD6.5 will be assessed by measuring the extent of tumor shrinkage. SC16LD6.5 is an antibody-drug conjugate (ADC). The antibody (SC16) targets a protein that appears to be expressed on the surface of most small cell lung cancers that have been assessed using an immunohistochemical assay. The drug, D6.5, is a very potent form of chemotherapy, specifically a DNA-damaging agent, that is cell cycle independent. ADC's theoretically provide more precise delivery of chemotherapy to cancer cells, possibly improving effectiveness relative to toxicities.