Perioperative Use of Tranexamic (TXA) in Bone Tumor Surgery Will Change in Blood Loss and Transfusion Requirements.
The purpose of this trial is to investigate whether previously reported benefit of Tranexamic acid in pediatric orthopedic surgeries could be recapitulated in bone tumor surgeries or not through a double blinded randomized controlled trial done in children cancer hospital 57357.
Ewing Sarcoma of Bone|Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Tranexamic acid injection|OTHER: Saline
Intraoperative blood loss will be changed by by Tranexamic acid when compared with saline or Not., will be calculated based on measurement of number and weights of blood-soaked surgical swabs. As well as measurement of total volume of blood collected in suction container, after subtracting volume of saline used for washing wound., during surgery|postoperative blood loss will be changed by Tranexamic acid when compared with saline or Not., will be calculated based on measurement of number and weights of blood-soaked surgical swabs. As well as measurement of total volume of blood collected in suction container, after subtracting volume of saline used for washing wound., after surgery , approximately 1-4 days
blood transfusion will be changed by Tranexamic acid when compared with saline or Not., Calculation of blood volume to be transfused (no of units in mls) = (Estimated blood volume ×(target HCT -actual HCT))/HCT of one unit of packed RBCs, during surgery and approximately 1-7 days
Resection of bone tumors is commonly associated with considerable intra and post-operative blood loss due to extensive soft tissue dissection, multiple bone osteotomies, prolonged operative time. The intraoperative use of limb tourniquet to reduce bleeding may not be applicable in all situations e.g. arm, thigh and pelvic surgeries. The use of cell savers for auto transplantation of blood is not preferred in cancer surgeries. Antifibrinolytic drug are currently used to reduce perioperative blood loss in a variety of orthopedic surgeries. Currently, the most common agents used are EACA and TXA. A third agent, aprotinin, was withdrawn from the market in 2007 owing to safety concerns noted in several studies, suggesting an increased risk of death and renal dysfunction in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Slow to adopt in obstetric population, TXA became popular for patients with hereditary bleeding disorders for whom menorrhagia, frequent spontaneous nose bleeds, or dental procedures could be life threatening. With strong record as an effective and safe medicine, TXA has earned its place on the World Health Organization List of Essential Medicines as an important drug needed in every health system. More recently, its use has expanded to treat or prevent excessive blood loss from trauma and major surgery, including cardiac, orthopedic, and hepatic procedures. TXA, a lysine analogue, reversibly binds to the plasminogen lysine receptors and thereby blocks plasminogen from binding to fibrin (tPA can only activate fibrin-bound plasminogen and produce plasmin responsible for cleaving fibrin molecule and dissolving the blood clot) TXA has been extensively studied in joint replacement surgeries specifically total knee replacement, scoliosis surgery, and in trauma surgeries. The question of efficacy of TXA in these surgeries was addressed in multiple prospective randomized studies and subsequent meta-analysis. Main concern regarding increased risk of DVT was negated in several of these studies. The American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons provides a strong recommendation for the use of any administration of TXA for joint arthroplasty and states that it does not seem to increase the risk of thromboembolic or myocardial complications. Junlong Zhong et al. in 2019 published a systematic review and meta-analyses on 2500 pediatric patients undergoing corrective surgery for idiopathic scoliosis. They concluded that TXA was effective in reducing surgical time, intraoperative blood loss and blood transfusion without increasing complications. Levack et al. Published in 2020 a randomized controlled trial on role of TXA in reducing blood loss and transfusion in pediatric patients undergoing a periacetabular osteotomy. They concluded that TXA reduced blood loss by 293ml and reduced frequency of allogenic transfusions by 73%.

The purpose of this trial is to investigate whether previously reported benefit of Tranexamic acid in pediatric orthopedic surgeries could be recapitulated in bone tumor surgeries or not through a double blinded randomized controlled trial done in children cancer hospital 57357.