Metabolically Fit CD19 CAR T-cell Therapy with CD34 Selection in Patients with CD19+ Relapsed/Refractory NHL, CLL/SLL
This is a single-center, nonrandomized, open-label dose-escalation study followed by dose-expansion of CD19- CD34t metabolically programmed CAR T-cell therapy in adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD19 B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL).
B-cell Non Hodgkin Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide injection|DRUG: Fludarabine Injection|BIOLOGICAL: CD19-CD34t metabolically programmed CAR transduced T-cells
MTD/MAD/RP2D evaluation, Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), maximum administered dose (MAD) and the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of CD19-CD34t metabolically programmed CAR T-cells, 12 months|CRS occurrence evaluation, Rate of grade 3 or higher cytokine release syndrome(CRS), Duration of study, up to 24 months|ICANS occurrence evaluation, rate of grade 3 or higher immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS), Duration of study, up to 24 months
Overall response and complete remission rate, 1. Anti-tumor activity of CD19-CD34t metabolically programmed CAR T-cell therapy in adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD19 B-cell NHL or CLL/SLL based on overall response rate (ORR) and complete remission (CR) rate. The response rate for patients with NHL will be determined by the 2014 Lugano IWG criteria. The response rate for CLL/SLL patients will be determined by the 2018 iwCLL criteria, 12 months|Progression free survival, duration of response, overall survival evaluations, Anti-tumor activity of CD19-CD34t metabolically programmed CAR T-cell therapy in adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD19 B-cell NHL or CLL/SLL based on progression free survival (PFS), duration of response (DOR), and overall survival (OS), 12 months|ORR and CR evaluation at the RP2D, Anti-tumor activity of CD19-CD34t metabolically programmed CAR T-cell therapy in adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD19 B-cell NHL or CLL/SLL treated at the RP2D based on ORR and CR rate. The response rate for patients with NHL will be determined by the 2014 Lugano IWG criteria. The response rate for CLL/SLL patients will be determined by the 2018 iwCLL criteria, Duration of study, up to 24 months|PFS, DOR and OS evaluation at the RP2D, Anti-tumor activity of CD19-CD34t metabolically programmed CAR T-cell therapy in adult patients with relapsed or refractory CD19 B-cell NHL or CLL/SLL treated at the RP2D based on PFS, DOR and OS., Duration of study, up to 24 months|Safety evaluation at the RP2D, Safety of CD19-CD34t metabolically programmed CAR T-cells at the RP2D, including all grade incidence of CRS and ICANS, Duration of study, up to 24 months
Although CD19 CAR T-cell therapy is a dynamic scientific and clinical breakthrough for CD19+ NHL, issues still remain in terms of relapse, toxicity, and availability. This trial will incorporate a CD34 tag (CD34t) into the CAR T-cell construct, thus allowing a more purified CAR T-cell product via CD34 selection. This purification step will hopefully lead to an improvement in safety/toxicity. Furthermore, the issue of CD19 CAR T-cell relapse has been linked to a lack of CAR T-cell fitness. With the knowledge that Th1 T-cell subsets have improved effector function and Th17 T-cell subsets have improved persistence, the investigators plan to expose the collected T-cells to priming conditions that lead to a metabolically enhanced CAR-T cell product akin to a Th1/17 hybrid cell. The investigators hypothesize that these metabolically programmed CD19 CAR-T cells will yield a high- quality product with enhanced persistence and anti-tumor efficacy when purified based on CD34t expression.