The Comparison of Single and Multi-incision MIE for Esophageal Cancer
Minimally invasive esophagectomy (MIE) has been gradually adopted as a feasible and effective treatment option for esophageal cancer. Previously the investigators have published the adoption of single-incision approach both in the thoracoscopic and laparoscopic phases in MIE (SIMIE).The preliminary clinical results showed that SIMIE can provide an equivalent perioperative outcome whereas reduced the wound pain on the days 7 after surgery as compared to MIE performed with multi-incision (MIMIE). The goal of the current study was to conduct a prospective randomized trial to compare the perioperative outcome and survival of SIMIE and MIMIE.
Esophageal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Minimally invasive esophagectomy
Overall survival rate, Overall survival rate of the participants after surgery, 60 months
Pain score as assessed by the face rating scale, The scale range of face rating scale is ranging from 0 (happy face) to 10 (crying face). Higher values represent a worse outcome., 1,7,14,28 days|Ratio of ambulation, 30-minute walk test, post-operative day 2 (POD2)|Postoperative force vital capacity, Force vital capacity (FVC) is one of the most common parameters for pulmonary function measured in spirometry, 1 and 3 months|Post operative forced expiratory volume in one second, Forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) is one of the most common parameters for pulmonary function measured in spirometry, 1 and 3 months|Postoperative pulmonary complication, pulmonary complication after esophagectomy, 1 month
Surgery remains the main stay of treating esophageal cancer. However, esophagectomy is a complex and technical demanding surgical procedure harboring substantial morbidity and mortality. Minimally invasive esophagectomy (MIE) has been gradually adopted as a feasible and effective treatment option for esophageal cancer. The standardized procedure including lymph node dissection, esophageal mobilization and reconstruction can be effectively performed under minimized wound incision whereas rendering the patients a possibility of faster postoperative recovery and reduced risk of perioperative postoperative pulmonary complication. The procedure of MIE including the thoracoscopic and laparoscopic phases which are usually performed multiple incisional wounds. Previously the investigators have published the adoption of single-incision approach both in the thoracoscopic and laparoscopic phases in MIE (SIMIE). The preliminary clinical results showed that SIMIE can provide an equivalent perioperative outcome whereas reduced the wound pain on the days 7 after surgery as compared to MIE performed with multi-incision (MIMIE). The goal of the current study was to conduct a prospective randomized trial to compare the perioperative outcome and survival of SIMIE and MIMIE.