Utidelone and Anlotinib in Advanced Recurrent Metastatic Esophageal Cancer
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety, tolerance and efficacy of Utidelone combined with Anlotinib in patients with Advanced or Recurrent Esophageal Carcinoma who failed Standard first line therapy.
Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Utidelone and anlotinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1 in all participants, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. For this analysis, ORR will be assessed in all participants who receive at least 1 dose of utidelone and/or anlotinib., Up to 1 year
progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST 1.1 in all participants, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. For this analysis, PFS will be assessed in all participants who receive at least 1 dose of utidelone and/or anlotinib., Up to 1 year|duration of response (DOR) per RECIST 1.1 in all participants who achieve partial response (PR) or complete response (CR), DOR is defined as the interval from response initiation (when either CR or PR is first determined) to progression or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS) in all participants, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. For this analysis, OS will be assessed in all participants who receive at least 1 dose of utidelone and/or anlotinib., Up to 2 years|Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study treatment and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. The number of participants who experienced ≥1 AE will be presented., Until 30 days after the last dose of treatment
Patients with advanced or recurrent esophageal carcinoma who failed standard first-line therapy have a low survival prognosis. There are few treatment options available and the clinical need is great.

The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Utidelone combined with Anlotinib in patients with Advanced or Recurrent Esophageal Carcinoma who fail first line therapy.

The trial is a single arm design. Patient in the treatment group will accept Utidelone at 30 mg/m2/d administered intravenously on days 1-5 and Anlotinib 8mg/d administered orally on days 1-14, 21 days as one cycle.

Before the use of utidelone, all patients will accept pretreatment: diphenhydramine 40 mg by intramuscular injection or oral administration, and dexamethasone10 mg and cimetidine 300 mg by intravenous injection 30 minutes prior to Utidelone iv drip at the first day of each cycle.

Tumor assessments will be performed at baseline and every 6 weeks (±7 days) after enrollment and will continue until disease progression according to RECIST v1.1 criteria. For patients with no disease progression, tumor evaluation will continue regardless of treatment discontinuation unless the patient begins new antitumor therapy or withdraws informed consent.