Hypofractionated Pre-operative Radiation Therapy for Soft Tissue Sarcomas of the Extremity and Chest-wall
This is a nonrandomized Phase II pilot protocol to determine the feasibility, toxicity and disease control (local control, overall and progression-free survival) using hypofractionated preoperative radiation therapy in patients with primary localized soft tissue sarcomas (STS).
Soft Tissue Sarcoma
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy
Local Disease Control Assessed by Physical Examination, This measure will capture the number of subjects experiencing a recurrence of the primary lesion assessed by physical examination., 2 Years|Local Disease Control Assessed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI), This measure is the number of subjects experiencing a recurrence of the primary lesion as assessed by MRI., 2 years
Musculoskeletal Tumor Rating Scale (MSTS) Score, Toxicity will be assessed at specific times the Musculoskeletal Tumor Rating Scale. The MSTS evaluates: pain, function, emotional acceptance, hand positioning, dexterity and lifting ability, using a six-item Likert scale ranging from 0 (worst condition) to 5 (best condition). The individual scores are added for the MSTS Score, range 0 to 30. A higher score indicates better function., Baseline, prior to surgery and 24 months after surgery|Disease-free Survival, Disease-free survival will measure the time in months from initiation of radiation therapy until documented recurrence of disease. Patients who are disease-free and alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of their last follow-up. Patients will be assessed for disease-free survival at 2 years., 2 Years|Overall Survival, Overall survival will measure the time from initiation of radiation therapy until documented death from any cause. Patients who are alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of their last follow-up. Patients will be assessed for overall survival at 2 years., 2 Years|Radiologic Changes Due to Hypofractionated Radiation., This measure will assess the size of enhancement due to hypofractionated radiation., 4 weeks after radiation therapy|Pathologic Changes Due to Hypofractionated Radiation., This measure will capture the fibrosis present in tissue specimens as a percent., 2 weeks after surgery|Treatment-related Necrosis and Fibrosis, Number of participants who experienced treatment-related necrosis and fibrosis ≥90%., 2 years
BACKGROUND OVERVIEW: Hypofractionation has several potential advantages over conventional radiation. First, the biological equivalent dose to the tumor is higher with hypofractionation than it is with conventional radiation. In between radiation treatments there is repair of the radiation damaged cancer cells (on a cell survival curve this region of repair is referred to as the "shoulder" of the curve). Some cell lines are better at repair than others. Sarcoma is often referred to as a "radioresistant" tumor, which means that sarcoma cell lines have a larger capacity for radiation repair than do other cell lines. A treatment that can deliver a high dose in fewer fractions can potentially overcome some of this repair. There is a concept in radiation known as "biologically equivalent dose" (BED) which states that a higher dose per fraction results in more tumor kill than a lower dose per fraction. For example, radiation delivered to a total of 60 Gy in three 20 Gy fractions is the equivalent of 150 Gy in 2 Gy fractions.

BACKGROUND RATIONALE: It is important to conduct this study because hypofractionation not only decreases treatment package time and cost of care, but it also potentially improves patient convenience and quality of life and could impact radiologic and pathologic variables in a positive way by leading to more tumor cell kill. This could potentially change the paradigm of the current management of STS of the extremity and chest-wall.

HYPOTHESIS: Preoperative hypofractionated radiation therapy for localized soft tissue sarcomas (STS) will result in local control and toxicity similar to conventional fractionation with less cost, more patient convenience and decreased overall treatment time.

TREATMENT: Image-guided radiation therapy is mandatory. PREOPERATIVE: (1) Either 3D conformal radiotherapy or intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT). (2) A prescription dose of 35 Gy in 5 fractions given every other day with at least 48 hours in between each fraction will be prescribed to cover 95% of the planning target volume. TREATMENT SCHEDULE: Treatments will have a minimum of a 48-hour interfraction interval. Treatments will be completed over 20 days maximum.