PD-1 Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors and Immune-Related Adverse Events: a Cohort Study
The objective of our study is to assess the risk of immune-related adverse events associated with PD-1 inhibitors use compared to standard chemotherapy use in patients with non small cell lung cancer, using nationwide healthcare database.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Immune-Related Adverse Events
DRUG: PD-1 inhibitor|DRUG: Chemotherapy Drugs, Cancer
Hazard ratio for immune-related adverse events, The ratio of hazard rates of immune-related adverse events in PD-1 inhibitor users vs. standard chemotherapy users, August 2017 to December 2018
Hazard ratio for eleven subdivided groups of immune-related adverse events by organ class, The ratio of hazard rates of eleven subdivided organ-specific immune-related adverse events (pulmonary, endocrine, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, hepatic, muscluoskeletal, neurological, ocular, renal, skin, and hematologic) in PD-1 inhibitor users vs. standard chemotherapy users, August 2017 to December 2018
This observational, retrospective cohort study will evaluate the risk of immune-related adverse events associated with PD-1 inhibitors use compared to standard chemotherapy use in patients with non small cell lung cancer, using nationwide healthcare database. PD-1 inhibitors will be defined as nivolumab, pembrolizumab, and atezolizumab. Standard chemotherapy will be defined as cytotoxic chemotherapy or tyrosine kinase inhibitors (epidermal growth cell receptor (EGFR) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitors). The investigators will assess exposure on the cohort entry using the intention-to-treat approach with the 6-month exposure risk window from the first PD-1 inhibitor prescription to avoid bias from informative censoring. Immune-related adverse events will be defined by using pre-specified algorithms using diagnosis and corticosteroid prescription records (high dose of oral corticosteroids, defined as ≥ 30 mg/day, or systemic corticosteroid injection) to reduce outcome misclassification. The investigators will use a multivariable Cox proportional hazard model to estimate hazard ratio (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). The model will be adjusted for pre-existing autoimmunity, history of lung cancer surgery, radiation therapy, tyrosine kinase inhibitor use, and previous systemic corticosteroid use. All analyses will be undertaken using SAS 9.4 (SAS Institute Inc., Cary, NC, USA).