Serum Anti-mullerian Hormone and Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome
In 1935 the polycystic ovary syndrome was a clinical diagnosis made on the morphological appearance of the ovaries in association with amenorrhoea, hirsutism and frequently obesity. At that time wedge resection of the ovaries was introduced on an empirical basis and proved a successful treatment for the associated anovulation and infertility. In the ensuing fifty years the limitations of a purely surgical approach to therapy have become recognized and the importance of the biochemical abnormalities appreciated. Prevalence of polycystic Ovary Syndrome: The prevalence of polycystic ovary syndrome in any specified population is dependent upon the diagnostic criteria used, but does have some regional and ethnic variation. While most reports on the prevalence of polycystic ovary syndrome range between 2 and 20%, the chosen diagnostic criteria are recognized to influence the determined prevalence. Anti-mullerian hormone which is a predictor of ovarian reserve is known to decrease after laparoscopic ovarian drilling. On the best of our knowledge no study had been done to use the level of anti-mullerian hormone as a factor for planning the number of ovarian drills in each ovary.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic ovarian drilling|BIOLOGICAL: Antimullerian hormone
Size of ovarian follicle (mm), 14 days
Antimullerian hormone level (ng/dl), 3 months|Ovarian volume (ml), 3 months
In 1935 the polycystic ovary syndrome was a clinical diagnosis made on the morphological appearance of the ovaries in association with amenorrhoea, hirsutism and frequently obesity. At that time wedge resection of the ovaries was introduced on an empirical basis and proved a successful treatment for the associated anovulation and infertility. In the ensuing fifty years the limitations of a purely surgical approach to therapy have become recognized and the importance of the biochemical abnormalities appreciated. Prevalence of polycystic Ovary Syndrome: The prevalence of polycystic ovary syndrome in any specified population is dependent upon the diagnostic criteria used, but does have some regional and ethnic variation. While most reports on the prevalence of polycystic ovary syndrome range between 2 and 20%, the chosen diagnostic criteria are recognized to influence the determined prevalence. Anti-mullerian hormone which is a predictor of ovarian reserve is known to decrease after laparoscopic ovarian drilling. On the best of our knowledge no study had been done to use the level of anti-mullerian hormone as a factor for planning the number of ovarian drills in each ovary.