Letetresgene Autoleucel Engineered T Cells in NY-ESO -1 Positive Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This trial will evaluate safety and efficacy of letetresgene autoleucel (GSK3377794) in participants with metastatic NSCLC.
Neoplasms
DRUG: letetresgene autoleucel (GSK3377794)|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine
Number of Participants With Non-serious Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is clinically significant or requires intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed before. Number of participants with common (greater than or equal to \[\>=\]5 percent\[%\]) non-serious AEs and SAEs are presented., Up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Hematology Results by Maximum Grade Increase Post-Baseline, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of following hematology parameters: hemoglobin, lymphocytes, neutrophils, platelets and leukocytes. Laboratory parameters were graded according to National Cancer Institute-Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.03 where, Grade1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline is the most recent, non-missing value from a central laboratory within 7 days prior to the lymphodepleting chemotherapy. An increase in grade is defined as an increase in CTCAE grade relative to Baseline grade. Data for any grade increase at worst-case post-Baseline is presented, Up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Any Grade Increase in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters: glucose (Gl), albumin, alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), bilirubin (Bil), creatinine (Creat), potassium (Pot), magnesium (Mg), phosphate (Ph), sodium (Sod) and calcium. Laboratory parameters were graded according to NCI-CTCAE version 4.03 where, Grade1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. An increase in grade is defined as an increase in CTCAE grade relative to Baseline grade. Data for any grade increase at worst-case post-Baseline is presented., Up to 24 months|Number of Participants With Worst Case Post-Baseline Abnormal Electrocardiogram (ECG) Findings, 12-lead ECGs were recorded in semi-supine position after 5 minutes rest using an ECG machine that automatically calculated the heart rate and measured PR, RR, QRS and QT duration corrected for heart rate by Fridericia's formula (QTcF) intervals. Data for number of participants with abnormal not clinically significant (NCS) and clinically significant (CS) ECG findings for worst case post-Baseline have been presented. Clinically significant abnormal laboratory findings are those which are not associated with the underlying disease, unless judged by the investigator to be more severe than expected for the participant's condition., Up to 24 months|Change From Baseline in Oxygen Saturation, Oxygen saturation measures the capacity of blood to transport oxygen to other parts of the body. Oxygen saturation was measured using a pulse oximeter. Baseline is the most recent, non-missing value within 7 days prior to initiating the lymphodepleting chemotherapy. Change from Baseline is the post-Baseline visit value minus Baseline value., Baseline, Day 1 (pre-dose, 5, 15, and 30 minutes, 1, 1.5, 2, and 4 hours post dose), Days 2, 3, 4, 5, 8 and Week 2
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed Partial response (PR) or Complete response (CR) as the Best overall response (BOR), as assessed by the investigator per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1. Confidence Interval (CI) was calculated using the exact method. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters. Complete response is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 millimeters., Up to 24 Months|Time to Response, Time to response is defined as the interval of time (in months) between the date of T-cell infusion and the first documented evidence of response (PR or CR) in the subset of participants with a confirmed PR or CR as the BOR as assessed by the investigator per RECIST v1.1., Up to 24 months|Duration of Response, Duration of response (DoR), defined as the interval of time in months from first documented evidence of PR or better to the time when disease progression is documented as assessed by RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause among participants with a confirmed PR or CR as the BOR., Up to 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the percentage of participants with a stable disease (SD) or better as the BOR (Confirmed PR, confirmed CR, or SD \>=12 weeks), as assessed by the investigator per RECIST v1.1. CI was calculated using the exact method., Up to 24 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) by Investigator Assessment, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the interval of time (in months) between the date of T-cell infusion and the earlier of the date of disease progression as assessed by the investigator and the date of death due to any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. PFS based on responses assessed by investigator per RECIST v1.1 is presented. Median and inter-quartile range (first quartile and third quartile) are presented., Up to 24 months
New York esophageal antigen-1 (NY-ESO-1) and L antigen family member (LAGE)-1a antigens are tumor-associated proteins that have been found in several tumor types. Clinical trials using adoptively transferred T-cells directed against NY-ESO-1/LAGE-1a have shown objective responses. Letetresgene autoleucel (GSK3377794) is the first generation of NY-ESO-1 specific T-cell receptor engineered TCR T-cells. This protocol investigates letetresgene autoleucel treatment in Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)\*-A\*02+ participants with NY-ESO1+ advanced metastatic non-small cell lung cancer as second line treatment.