DCE-MRI Guided Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Borderline Resectable Pancreatic Cancer
The goal of this study is to test whether chemotherapy guided by a new imaging method named DCE-MRI can more effectively reduce a pancreatic tumor, enabling curable surgery, over the conventional method when a tumor is categorized as borderline resectable pancreatic cancer. UAB radiological research team has been studying a cutting-edge imaging technique named dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, or DCE-MRI, for over 10 years. This technique has been globally used to calculate the blood flow of various tissues, including tumors. Blood flow often serves as a critical indicator showing a disease status. For example, a pancreatic tumor typically has low blood flow, so it can be used as an indicator to identify the presence of a pancreatic tumor. In addition, an effective therapy can result in the increase of blood flow in a pancreatic tumor during the early period of treatment. Therefore, the investigators may be able to determine whether the undergoing therapy is effective or not by measuring the change of blood flow in the pancreatic tumor and deciding whether to continue the therapy or try a different one.
Borderline-resectable Pancreatic Cancer
DEVICE: Point-of-care Portable Perfusion Phantom (P4)
To measure the reproducibility of qDCE-MRI measurement of BRPC., The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameter within the region of interest (ROI) will be averaged at each scan after P4-based error correction, and the mean values of two scans will be compared to calculate the reproducibility coefficient (%RDC) using the equation, %RDC=2.77wCV, where wCV is the within-subject coefficient of variation. The %RDC before P4-based error correction will also be calculated for comparison. Data reproducibility will be assessed using the intra-class correlation coefficient (ICC) as well. ICC = σ 2b / (σ 2b+ σ 2w), where σb is between-subject standard deviation and σw is within-subject standard deviation., 6 weeks +/- 2 weeks
The goal of this study is to test whether chemotherapy guided by a new imaging method named DCE-MRI can more effectively reduce a pancreatic tumor, enabling curable surgery, over the conventional method when a tumor is categorized as borderline resectable pancreatic cancer. UAB radiological research team has been studying a cutting-edge imaging technique named dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging, or DCE-MRI, for over 10 years. This technique has been globally used to calculate the blood flow of various tissues, including tumors. Blood flow often serves as a critical indicator showing a disease status. For example, a pancreatic tumor typically has low blood flow, so it can be used as an indicator to identify the presence of a pancreatic tumor. In addition, an effective therapy can result in the increase of blood flow in a pancreatic tumor during the early period of treatment. Therefore, the investigators may be able to determine whether the undergoing therapy is effective or not by measuring the change of blood flow in the pancreatic tumor and deciding whether to continue the therapy or try a different one.