Clinical Application of 68Ga-DOTA-NT-20.3 in the Early Diagnosis of Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
The purpose of this study is to determine the pharmacokinetics, dosimetry, tolerance, tumor detection rate of 68Ga-DOTA-NT-20.3 in patient with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC).
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
RADIATION: 68Ga-DOTA-NT-20.3
Sensitivity and specificity of diagnosis and staging, The presence of non-physiological uptake or uptake in a tissue structure can be considered pathological. The signal intensity of PET indicates the presence and density of NTR-1 in the tissue. The lesion intake is higher than the liver and is classified as clearly positive. The lesion and the surrounding normal tissue ROI, measure the SUV, and calculate the T/B ratio., 3 years
NTR-1 receptor expression by histology compared to tracer uptake, Pathological detection of NTR-1 receptor expression in patients' lesions and compared to tracer uptake by PET/CT/MR., 3 years|Safety and Tolerability Profile Measured by Adverse Events (AEs), Safety and tolerability profile for the administration of 68Ga-DOTA-NT-20.3 and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning are measured by number of participants with adverse events (AEs)., 3 years
This study is design to prospectively investigate the safety and efficacy of 68Ga-DOTA-NT-20.3 in the early diagnosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). The specific objectives are the determination of pharmacokinetics, dosimetry, tolerance and tumor detection rate of 68Ga-DOTA-NT-20.3 in patient with PDAC. Neurotensin receptor 1 (NTR-1) is the high affinity receptor of Neurotensin (NT), which was found abnormal expression in the early stages of PDAC malignant cell transformation. 68Ga-DOTA-NT-20.3 as a new NTR-1 targeted probe was prepared and showed good uptake on PDAC cell line and animal studies. The study intends to recruit 6 PDAC volunteers to participate in the experiment. Patients were evaluated with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG). And then all patients underwent a single-injection with 68Ga-DOTA-NT-20.3, dual-modality imaging protocol consisting of a PET/CT and subsequent PET/MR scan. The follow-up period was followed up to assess safety and effectiveness.