Clinical Trial of AM80 in Combination With Gemcitabine, Cisplatin, and Nivolumab in Patients With Urothelial Carcinoma
【Treatment of Urothelial Carcinoma】 Treatment for urothelial carcinoma includes surgery, chemotherapy (anticancer drugs), and radiation therapy. Chemotherapy is generally used when metastasis has already occurred at diagnosis and surgery is not curative (metastatic urothelial carcinoma) or when the cancer recurs after local therapy such as surgery or radiation therapy (recurrent urothelial carcinoma).

Although there are several recommended treatments for urothelial carcinoma, the options are often limited by side effects and other factors, and these treatments may not be fully effective. Therefore, the development of safer and more effective treatments is desired.

【About the Drugs to be Used in this Clinical Trial】 In this clinical trial, the investigational drug MIKE-1 will be used in combination with nivolumab plus GC (cisplatin gemcitabine), one of the recommended chemotherapy regimens, and subsequently with nivolumab monotherapy for patients with unresectable metastatic or recurrent urothelial cancer. Nivolumab, cisplatin, and gemcitabine are injectable (intravenous infusion), while MIKE-1 is oral.

【Purpose of the Clinical Trial】 The purpose of this clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy (how much the cancer shrinks or slows down) and safety of the investigational drug MIKE-1 in combination with nivolumab and gemcitabine and cisplatin therapy in patients with untreated unresectable or recurrent urothelial cancer.
Urothelial Carcinoma Bladder|Urothelial Carcinoma of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Urothelial Carcinoma Urethra|Urothelial Carcinoma Recurrent
DRUG: Add-on effect of adding tamivarotene (AM80) to gemcitabine, cisplatin, and nivolumab combination therapy
Response rate (RR), Response rate (RR): determined by the investigator or sub-investigator at the site.

Tumor shrinkage by the best overall response based on the RECIST criteria will be determined by CT scan at each time point. For the same subject, the same imaging method used to evaluate measurable lesions at screening (e.g., the same contrast method) will be used during the study period in principle. The evaluation on each visit day should be performed by the same evaluator as much as possible to ensure internal consistency between each visit day. The response rate is calculated as the ratio of the total number of subjects with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). CR or PR shall require "confirmation of efficacy"., Time from the start of treatment (day 1) to the confirmation of complete response (CR: complete disappearance of tumor) or partial response (PR: reduction of tumor by a certain percentage or more). (Average 18 weeks)
Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the period beginning on the date of AM80 administration and ending on the date of death from any cause.

For cases that are alive at the cutoff point, the last date of confirmed survival is used as the cutoff date. In the case of untraceable cases, the cutoff date is the last date of confirmed survival before the cutoff., Time from day 1 of AM80 administration to death. (Average 49 weeks)|Progression free survival, Progression" in the evaluation of progression-free survival is defined as Progressive Disease (PD) in the overall efficacy. Progression-free survival is defined as the time to the cut-off point for survivors who have not experienced progression by the time the last patient completes the imaging evaluation at 49 weeks post-treatment (cut-off point). Unfollow-up will be terminated on the date of the last confirmation that there was no progression. For subjects who have started post-treatment without progression, the cut-off date is the date of the last confirmation that there was no progression before the start of post-treatment. However, if nivolumab is continued after completion of study treatment, it will be treated as post-treatment, but will not be censored in the calculation of progression-free survival. If post-treatment other than nivolumab is subsequently started, it will be censored on the last date of confirmation that no progression occurred before that date., Time from day 1 of AM80 administration to the date of confirmed progression. (Average 49 weeks)|Duration of Response, The duration of response is the period from the start of AM80 administration to the first date of objective confirmation of tumor recurrence or progression of disease from the time of first confirmation of CR or PR in the evaluation of overall efficacy from the start of AM80 administration in cases in which the best overall response was evaluated as CR or PR. The duration of complete response is the period from the start of AM80 administration and the first confirmed CR in the assessment of overall response to the first objectively confirmed date of tumor recurrence. Duration of response and duration of complete response will be evaluated based on the determination by RECIST evaluation, respectively.

If no progression of disease is observed at the cut-off time point, the study is terminated on the last date when disease progression is confirmed. For subjects who have started post-treatment without progression, the cut-off date will be the last date of confirmation that there was no p, Time since initiation of treatment from the time PR or CR was first identified to the date of tumor recurrence. (Average 49 weeks)
【Treatment of urothelial carcinoma】 Treatment for urothelial carcinoma includes surgery, chemotherapy (anticancer agents), and radiation therapy. Chemotherapy is generally used when metastasis has already occurred at the time of diagnosis and surgery is not curative (metastatic urothelial carcinoma), or when cancer has reappeared after local therapy such as surgery or radiation therapy (recurrent urothelial carcinoma).

Pembrolizumab plus enfoltumab vedotin, cisplatin and gemcitabine (GC) plus nivolumab followed by nivolumab alone, or GC followed by avelumab are the recommended standard of care for patients with metastatic or recurrent urothelial carcinoma. The standard of care for recurrent urothelial carcinoma is Although there are several recommended treatments for urothelial carcinoma, the options are often limited by side effects and other factors, and the effectiveness of these treatments may not be sufficient. Therefore, the development of safer and more effective treatments is desired.

Thus, although treatment methods for urothelial carcinoma are gradually advancing, options are often limited by side effects and other factors, and effectiveness is not yet sufficient. Therefore, the development of safer and more effective treatments is desired.

【About the drugs to be used in this clinical trial】 In this clinical trial, the investigational drug "MIKE-1" will be used in combination with "nivolumab + GC (cisplatin and gemcitabine) combination therapy and subsequent nivolumab monotherapy," which is one of the chemotherapy regimens recommended overseas for patients with unresectable metastatic or recurrent urothelial cancer . Nivolumab, cisplatin and gemcitabine are injectable (intravenous infusion) and MIKE-1 is oral.

・ Investigational drug MIKE-1 (AM80) MIKE-1 is a soft capsule formulation containing the active ingredient AM80 (also called tamivarotene), a member of the vitamin A family called synthetic retinoids.

A tablet formulation containing the same active ingredient as MIKE-1 was approved and is currently used in Japan for the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia in April 2005 under the trade name Amnolake® Tablets.

Metastatic or recurrent urothelial carcinoma is thought to have many areas surrounding cancer cells called stroma, which makes it difficult for anticancer drugs to reach the cancer cells and thus makes the treatment less effective.

Nagoya University has confirmed in animal studies that AM80 softens cancer stroma, making it easier for anticancer drugs to reach cancer cells. It was also confirmed that when AM80 is used in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors（ICIs）, immune cells with enhanced functions to attack cancer cells gather in large numbers around the cancer cells, and the tumors become smaller. Based on these results, the investigators planned this clinical trial in the hope that the administration of MIKE-1, whose active ingredient is AM80, in combination with ICIs used for urothelial carcinoma will enhance the effect of tumor reduction.

【Purpose of the Clinical Trial】 The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy (how much the cancer is reduced or slowed down) and safety of the investigational drug MIKE-1 in combination with nivolumab and GC therapy in patients with untreated unresectable or recurrent urothelial carcinoma in the urothelial cancer.