The Efficacy of Kinesio Taping on Lymphedema Following Head and Neck Cancer Therapy
Purpose off the study is investigating to efficacy of kinesio taping on neck lymphedema after the head and neck cancer therapy.
Lymphedema|Head and Neck Cancer|Kinesio Taping|Therapy
DEVICE: Kinesio Tex Gold
The values of diameter of lymphedema of neck with face, The diameters of upper, middle and lower points of neck were measured with tailor meter by a Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation professionals (measure unit is cm)., Baseline|The values of diameter of lymphedema of neck with face, The diameters of upper, middle and lower points of neck and two points of face were measured with tailor meter by a Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation professionals (measure unit is cm)., 2 weeks|The values of diameter of lymphedema of neck with face, The diameters of upper, middle and lower points of neck and two points of face were measured with tailor meter by a Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation professionals (measure unit is cm). The changes were assessed from baseline neck diameter at end of treatment and after one month., 4 weeks|The values of diameter of lymphedema of neck with face, The diameters of upper, middle and lower points of neck were measured with tailor meter by a Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation professionals (measure unit is cm). The changes were assessed from baseline neck diameter at end of treatment and after one month., 8 weeks|The outcomes of Quality of Life Questionnaire-Head and Neck 35, It was assessed by Quality of Life Questionnaire-Head and Neck 35 that a self questionnaire in head and neck cancer patients. The minimum score is 0 and maximum score is 100. The high scores were worst low scores were good health., baseline|The outcomes of Quality of Life Questionnaire-Head and Neck 35, It was assessed by Quality of Life Questionnaire-Head and Neck 35 that a self questionnaire in head and neck cancer patients. The minimum score is 0 and maximum score is 100. The high scores were worst low scores were good health., 4 weeks|The outcomes of Quality of Life Questionnaire-Head and Neck 35, It was assessed by Quality of Life Questionnaire-Head and Neck 35 that a self questionnaire in head and neck cancer patients. The minimum score is 0 and maximum score is 100. The high scores were worst low scores were good health., 8 weeks|The scores of head and neck external lymphedema rating scale, They were assessed by M. D. Anderson head and neck lymphedema rating scale in head and neck cancer patients. Composite Score ranges from 0 ( low edema) to 3 (high level edema)., Baseline|The scores of head and neck external lymphedema rating scale, They were assessed by M. D. Anderson head and neck lymphedema rating scale in head and neck cancer patients. Composite Score ranges from 0 ( low edema) to 3 (high level edema)., 2 weeks|The scores of head and neck external lymphedema rating scale, They were assessed by M. D. Anderson head and neck lymphedema rating scale in head and neck cancer patients. Composite Score ranges from 0 ( low edema) to 3 (high level edema)., 4 weeks|The scores of head and neck external lymphedema rating scale, They were assessed by M. D. Anderson head and neck lymphedema rating scale in head and neck cancer patients. Composite Score ranges from 0 ( low edema) to 3 (high level edema)., 8 weeks|The outcomes of Patterson larynx pharynx internal edema scale, It was assessed with Flexible Endoscopic Evaluation Study. Flexible Endoscopic Evaluation Study results were scored on Patterson larynx pharynx edema scale. The scores of scale were no, mild, moderate and severe . The high grade symptom scores were worst, low scores were good health, Baseline|The outcomes of Patterson larynx pharynx edema scale, It was assessed with Fiberoptic Endoscopic Evaluation Study. Flexible Endoscopic Evaluation Study results were scored on Patterson larynx pharynx edema scale. The scores of scale were no, mild, moderate and severe. The high grade symptom scores were worst, low scores were good health, 2 weeks|The outcomes of Patterson larynx pharynx edema scale, It was assessed with Fiberoptic Endoscopic Evaluation Study. Flexible Endoscopic Evaluation Study results were scored on Patterson larynx pharynx edema scale. The scores of scale were no, mild, moderate and severe. The high grade symptom scores were worst, low scores were good health, 4 weeks|The outcomes of Patterson larynx pharynx edema scale, It was assessed with Fiberoptic Endoscopic Evaluation Study. Flexible Endoscopic Evaluation Study results were scored on Patterson larynx pharynx edema scale. The scores of scale were no, mild, moderate and severe. The high grade symptom scores were worst, low scores were good health, 8 weeks
Mean of demographic, Age, gender, history of smoke, history of morbidities, diagnosis, stage, therapies of cancer, lymphedema stages were noted, Baseline
The neck lymphedema is a multidirectional process that depends on lymphatic circulation issues. The lymphedema can be treated using such as therapies, drugs or surgeries. There are few techniques for treatment of neck lymphedema and also in our best knowledge the kinesio taping therapy on lymphedema following neck cancer therapy had not been investigated or published. The study will assess the efficacy of kinesio taping in neck lymphedema with manual therapy after the head and neck cancer treatment.