Mechanisms of Idelalisib-Associated Diarrhea in Patients With Relapsed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, Indolent Non-hodgkin Lymphoma, or Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
This research trial studies the mechanisms of idelalisib-associated diarrhea in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, indolent non-hodgkin lymphoma, or small lymphocytic lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement. The cancer treatment drug idelalisib triggers diarrhea in some patients. Studying stool, blood, and tissue samples in the lab from patients who are given idelalisib may help doctors learn more about the side effects and may help to treat them in future patients.
Absence of Signs or Symptoms|B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Digestive System Signs and Symptoms|Indolent Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Indolent Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Colonoscopy|PROCEDURE: Colposcopic Biopsy|DRUG: Idelalisib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|PROCEDURE: Physical Examination|PROCEDURE: Sigmoidoscopy
Cellular mechanisms of idelalisib-induced diarrhea/colitis assessed by a number of tests in order to provide variability in comparisons for the units of measure., Up to 11 years|The Mechanism of Action (MOA) of idelalisib will be assessed with a number of tests in order to provide variability in comparisons for the units of measure., Up to 11 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the cellular and molecular mechanisms of idelalisib-induced diarrhea/colitis in relapsed chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), relapsed indolent non-hodgkin lymphomas (iNHL), or relapsed small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL).

II. To further understand the mechanism of action (MOA) of idelalisib in context of the nodal microenvironment and the possible involvement of the immune system in idelalisib's anti-lymphoma activity.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive a physical examination during visit 1. A stool sample, blood sample, and 6 biopsies are collected at visit 2, and patients undergo a flexible fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy. Patients receive idelalisib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) after visit 2. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. A third research visit occurs upon development of idelalisib-associated diarrhea/colitis symptoms. Patients with diarrhea/colitis symptoms undergo a full colonoscopy and collection of stool and blood samples. Control patients with no diarrhea/colitis symptoms undergo all needed tests and assessments including a flexible fiberoptic sigmoidoscopy and collection of stool and blood samples. All patients undergo optional biospecimen collection at the time of disease progression.