PD-L1 Inhibition as ChecKpoint Immunotherapy for NeuroEndocrine Phenotype Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of avelumab in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine-like prostate cancer. Eligible men will be started on avelumab every 2 weeks and will stay on therapy until progression or intolerable side effects. The central hypothesis is that PD-L1 inhibition with avelumab will be efficacious based on radiographic responses in a subset of men with metastatic neuroendocrine-like prostate cancer and be reasonably well tolerated, meeting criteria for further study in larger phase 2 and 3 trials based on meeting pre-specified efficacy rates and prolonged PFS in some men.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Avelumab
Number of Participants With Overall Response as Determined by iRECIST, Overall response rate is determined by radiographic response assessment utilizing modified Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) using Immune Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (iRECIST 1.1). iRECIST is the modified RECIST 1.1 for immune-based therapeutics, to measure radiographic response rate in men with metastatic prostate cancer. Patients alive who had not progressed as of the last follow-up, had PFS censored at the last follow-up date. There are five categories overall responses:

iCR: immune complete response achieved with disappearance of all target lesions iCPD: immune confirmed progressive disease when there is either 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions iSD: immune stable disease in the absence of CR or PD iUPD: immune unconfirmed progressive disease when PD is unconfirmed NE: not evaluable, baseline to end of treatment (approximately 6 months)
Efficacy of PD-L1 Inhibition With Avelumab as Determined by RECIST1.1, Overall response rate is determined by radiographic response assessment utilizing Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1). Patients alive who had not progressed as of the last follow-up, had PFS censored at the last follow-up date. There are four overall response categories:

Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target and non-target lesions Progressive Disease (PD): 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions Stable Disease (SD): In the absence of CR and PD Unevaluable (NE), baseline to end of treatment (approximately 6 months)|Radiographic Progression Free Survival (rPFS), Radiographic progression free survival (rPFS) as determined by PCWG3 and RECISTS1.1 criteria. Radiographic progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Patients alive who had not progressed as of the last follow-up had PFS censored at the last follow-up date. Median rPFS was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve., baseline to end of treatment (approximately 6 months)|Overall Survival, Length of patient's life after starting study, Up to 23.5 months|Toxicity and Safety of PD-L1 Inhibition With Avelumab in Men With Metastatic Neuroendocrine-like Prostate Cancer, Number of Participants with Adverse Events, 28 days post-treatment (approximately 7 months)
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of avelumab in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine-like prostate cancer. Eligible men will be started on avelumab every 2 weeks and will stay on therapy until progression or intolerable side effects. The central hypothesis is that PD-L1 inhibition with avelumab will be efficacious based on radiographic responses in a subset of men with metastatic neuroendocrine-like prostate cancer and be reasonably well tolerated, meeting criteria for further study in larger phase 2 and 3 trials based on meeting pre-specified efficacy rates and prolonged PFS in some men.