Developing and Evaluating Product Messaging
Purpose: To assess the impact of taxes, warnings, and a combination of taxes and warnings on US adults' decisions to purchase products that contain red meat in an online grocery store.

Procedures (methods): Participants will be recruited from Prime Panels (an online panel research company). Following online consent, participants will be assigned to one of four trial arms: 1) Control (no warning and no tax), 2) Warnings (all products that contain red meat have a health warning and environmental warning), 3) Tax (30% tax on products that contain red meat), and 4) Combined warning and tax (all products that contain red meat will have the two warnings and a 30% tax). Then, participant will enter an online grocery store reflecting their assigned arm. The participant will be instructed to complete a shopping task in the online grocery store. After completing the shopping task, participants will be redirected to an online survey and answer a series of questions about the shopping task, labels (excluding tax and control groups), and taxes (excluding warning and control groups). Questions will also include standard demographic and health related variables.
Cancer of Colon|Cancer of Rectum
OTHER: Control|OTHER: Warning Labels|OTHER: Tax|OTHER: Combined Warning Labels and Tax
Count of Products That Contain Red Meat, The number of products in a participant's shopping basket that contain red meat., At completion of ~15 minute shopping task|Percentage of Red Meat Containing Products, The percentage of products in a participant's shopping basket that contain red meat., At completion of ~15 minute shopping task
Total Saturated Fat, Total grams of saturated fat of products in a participant's shopping basket. This will be calculated by adding together the total saturated fat from each product in the participant's shopping basket. Saturated fat for each product will come from the product's nutrition facts panel. All products in the store are real life products that have designated nutrition facts panels., At completion of ~15 minute shopping task|Total Sodium, Total grams of sodium of products in a participant's shopping basket. This will be calculated by adding together the total sodium from each product in the participant's shopping basket. Sodium for each product will come from the product's nutrition facts panel. All products in the store are real life products that have designated nutrition facts panels., At completion of ~15 minute shopping task|Total Calories, Total calories of products in a participant's shopping basket. This will be calculated by adding together the total calories from each product in the participant's shopping basket. Calories for each product will come from the product's nutrition facts panel. All products in the store are real life products that have designated nutrition facts panels., At completion of ~15 minute shopping task|Perceived Healthfulness, Perceived healthfulness of eating red meat. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a higher perceived healthfulness of eating red meat., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Perceived Cancer Risk, Perceived risk of colon and rectal cancer from eating red meat. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a higher perceived risk of colon and rectal cancer from eating red meat., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Perceived Environmental Risk, Perceived risk of environmental harms from eating red meat. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a higher perceived risk of environmental harms from eating red meat., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Cognitive Elaboration (Health), Thinking about the health harms of food products while completing the shopping task. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a higher amount of thinking about health harms of food products., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Cognitive Elaboration (Environment), Thinking about the environmental harms of food products while completing the shopping task. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a higher amount of thinking about the environmental harms of food products., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Cognitive Elaboration (Price), Thinking about the price of food products while completing the shopping task. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a higher amount of thinking about the price of food products., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Specific Perceived Healthfulness, Perceived healthfulness of specific red meat products (burgers, pepperoni pizza, and deli ham). Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with lower scores representing worse for health and higher scores representing better for health., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Specific Perceived Environmental Risk, Perceived environmental harm of specific red meat products (burgers, pepperoni pizza, and deli ham). Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with lower scores representing worse for the environment and higher scores representing better for the environment., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Perceived Cost of the Burger Product., Perceived cost of the burger product. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with lower scores representing less expensive and higher scores representing more expensive., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Perceived Cost of the Pizza Product., Perceived cost of the pizza product. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with lower scores representing less expensive and higher scores representing more expensive., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Perceived Cost of the Ham Product., Perceived cost of the ham product. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with lower scores representing less expensive and higher scores representing more expensive., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Intention to Reduce, Intention to reduce red meat consumption in the next 30 days. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a higher intention to reduce red meat consumption in the next 30 days., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task
Percentage of Participants Who Support Tax, Support of policy for taxes on red meat products in the U.S. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a greater deal of support. Those who indicated '4' or '5' were assumed to more strongly agree to support a red meat product tax. This measure reports the percentage of those with a response of '4' or '5'., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Percentage of Participants Who Support Health Warning Label, Support of policy for health warning labels on red meat products in the U.S. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a greater deal of support. Those who indicated '4' or '5' were assumed to more strongly agree to support a health warning label. This measure reports the percentage of those with a response of '4' or '5'., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Percentage of Participants Who Support Environmental Warning Label, Support of policy for environmental warning labels on red meat products in the U.S. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a greater deal of support. Support of policy for taxes on environmental warning labels in the U.S. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a greater deal of support. Those who indicated '4' or '5' were assumed to more strongly agree to support an environmental warning label. This measure reports the percentage of participants with a response of '4' or '5'., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Mean Modified Waterlander Acceptability Scale Score, Acceptability of the online grocery store. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing a higher amount of agreement.

Acceptability of the online grocery store is measured using 3 items adapted from Waterlander et al., 2011. Responses to the 3 items will be averaged to create an acceptability score sum ranging from 3-15 then divided by the total number of questions asked (n = 3).

Prompt: Say whether you agree or disagree with the following statements.

I could easily find all of the food and beverages I was looking for in the online grocery store.

There were enough food and beverage options in the online grocery store.

This online grocery store felt like a real online grocery store.

Waterlander WE, Scarpa M, Lentz D, Steenhuis IHM. The virtual supermarket: an innovative research tool to study consumer food purchasing behavior. 2011;11:589. DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-11-589., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task|Ease of Store Use, Ease of use of the online grocery store. Likert response options are on a 1 to 5 scale, with higher scores representing more agreement that the online grocery store is easy to use., ~15 minutes post-test computer survey following the ~15 minute shopping task
Participants will be recruited from Prime Panels (an online panel research company). Following online consent, participants will be randomly assigned to one of four trial arms affecting the appearance of an online grocery store. Once in the online grocery store, participants will complete a shopping task. The participants will have 9 specified items to add to their shopping cart (1 pizza, 1 burrito, Burger patties \[meat or vegetarian\], Breakfast sausages \[meat or vegetarian\], 1 frozen individual meal, 1 loaf of bread, 1 sandwich filling \[for example, ham, turkey, or peanut butter\], 1 pack of tortillas, 1 taco filling \[for example, steak, chicken, or beans\]). Participants will be informed that they will not be spending any of their own money to complete the shopping task. After completing the shopping task, participants will be redirected to a survey. They will provide self-reported responses to survey questions (e.g. perceived healthfulness from eating red meat, perceived risk of cancer from eating red meat, thinking about the health/environmental harms of food products). Participants will also answer demographic and health related questions.