Genetically Engineered Cells (CD83 CAR T Cells) for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of genetically engineered cells (CD83 chimeric antigen receptor \[CAR\] T cells) in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). CD83 is a protein that is found on AML blasts. Blasts are abnormal immature white blood cells that can multiply uncontrollably: filling up the bone marrow and preventing the production of other cells important for survival. CD83 CAR T cells represent a new cell therapy to eliminate AML blasts, while avoiding the risk for graft versus host disease (GVHD) after stem cell transplant to replace bone marrow or, tumor toxicity like myeloid aplasia where the body's own immune system causes damage to the bone marrow stem cells. Therefore, human CD83 CAR T cells are a promising cell-based approach to preventing two critical complications of stem-cell transplant - GVHD and relapse. Giving CD83 CAR T cells may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating patients with relapsed or refractory AML.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Autologous Anti-CD83 CAR T-cells|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Chest Radiography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|DRUG: Hydroxyurea|PROCEDURE: Leukapheresis|PROCEDURE: Lumbar Puncture|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Will be defined as any adverse events based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5. Cytokine release syndrome(CRS)/immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome will be graded according to American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) Consensus Guidelines. The DLTs will be summarized by dose level using frequencies and relative frequencies. Will employ the Bayesian optimal interval design to find the maximal tolerated dose (MTD). The target DLT rate for the MTD is = 0.33., Up to 28 days
Objective response, Will be determine as the number of patients achieving complete remission, partial remission, and/or morphologic leukemia free state by 2022 European Leukemia Net Response Criteria. Will be summarized by dose level using frequencies and relative frequencies. Rates will be estimated using 95% credible regions obtained by Jeffrey's prior method. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Fisher's exact test., At 28 days and 1 year|Overall survival, Will be summarized by dose level using cumulative incidence or Kaplan-Meier curves, as appropriate. Estimates of the median times will be obtained with 95% confidence intervals calculated using the log-log transformation. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Gray's or the log-rank test, as appropriate., From treatment initiation until death due to any cause or last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year|Progression-free survival, Will be summarized by dose level using cumulative incidence or Kaplan-Meier curves, as appropriate. Estimates of the median times will be obtained with 95% confidence intervals calculated using the log-log transformation. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Gray's or the log-rank test, as appropriate., From treatment initiation until disease progression/relapse, death due to any cause, subsequent treatment (censored), or last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year|Hematologic recovery, Will be assessed by achieving an absolute neutrophil count recovery (\> 0.5 x 10\^9/L). Will be summarized by dose level using frequencies and relative frequencies. Rates will be estimated using 95% credible regions obtained by Jeffrey's prior method. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Fisher's exact test., At 28 days|Time to hematologic recovery, Relapse or death will be considered the competing risk. Will be summarized by dose level using cumulative incidence or Kaplan-Meier curves, as appropriate. Estimates of the median times will be obtained with 95% confidence intervals calculated using the log-log transformation. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Gray's or the log-rank test, as appropriate., From treatment initiation until hematologic recovery or last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year|Acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), Will be defined as a grade II-IV acute GVHD. Will be summarized by dose level using cumulative incidence or Kaplan-Meier curves, as appropriate. Estimates of the median times will be obtained with 95% confidence intervals calculated using the log-log transformation. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Gray's or the log-rank test, as appropriate., Up to 6 weeks|Time to GVHD, Relapse or death will be considered the competing risk. Will be summarized by dose level using cumulative incidence or Kaplan-Meier curves, as appropriate. Estimates of the median times will be obtained with 95% confidence intervals calculated using the log-log transformation. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Gray's or the log-rank test, as appropriate., From treatment initiation until grade II-IV GVHD, 6 weeks post infusion, or last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year|Treatment-related adverse events, Will be defined as by CTCAE v5 and CRS by ASTCT Consensus Grading for CRS and Neurological Toxicity Associated with Immune Effector Cells. Will be summarized by dose level using frequencies and relative frequencies. Rates will be estimated using 95% credible regions obtained by Jeffrey's prior method. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Fisher's exact test., Up to 12 months|Time to treatment related adverse event, Relapse or death will be considered the competing risk. Will be summarized by dose level using cumulative incidence or Kaplan-Meier curves, as appropriate. Estimates of the median times will be obtained with 95% confidence intervals calculated using the log-log transformation. As exploratory analyses, comparisons between dose levels may be made using Gray's or the log-rank test, as appropriate, From treatment initiation until a treatment related adverse event, 12 months post infusion, or last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year|Number of peripheral blood chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, Will be summarized by dose level and timepoint (pre- and post-therapy) using the mean, median, and standard deviation; and graphically using dot plots. The log absolute number of CD83 CAR T cells per peripheral blood volume will be modeled as a function of dose level, time, their two-way interaction, and a random subject effect using a linear mixed model. Tests about the appropriate contrasts on model estimates will be sued to compare: 1) changes relative to pre-therapy within each dose level, and 2) changes at a given timepoint between dose levels. All model assumptions will be verified graphically, and transformations applied as appropriate., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety and determine the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of autologous anti-CD83 CAR T-cells (CD83 CAR T cells) administered as a single infusion to refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record activity against AML. II. To evaluate response for AML using 2022 European Leukemia Net (ELN) criteria.

III. To evaluate progression-free and overall survival after CAR T cell infusion.

IV. To evaluate the time to hematological recovery after CAR T cell infusion. V. To evaluate in vivo CAR T cell expansion and persistence. VI. To evaluate acute GVHD within 6 weeks after infusion of CAR T cells in patients who relapsed after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).

VII. To evaluate the incidence of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the relationship between cytokine expression and cytokine release syndrome (CRS).

II. To determine predictors of response and mechanisms or resistance to CAR-T cells.

III. To evaluate immune effects by CD83 CAR T cells on peripheral blood T cell subsets, B cells and dendritic cells.

IV. To evaluate the relationship between baseline levels of CD83 expression on AML blasts and response following CAR T cell infusion.

V. To evaluate the relationship between proportion of infused CAR T cell subsets (γδ T cells versus \[vs.\] αβ T cells) and disease response.

VI. To evaluate immunity after CAR T cell infusion. VII. To determine the rate of successful manufacturing and time required to complete.

VIII. To evaluate for CAR T phenotype, exhaustion, and CAR versus non-CAR subsets associated with response and relapse.

IX. Evaluate the effect of CAR T infusion on quality of life.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo leukapheresis to obtain peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) for CD83 CAR T cell product manufacturing on day -21 and may receive hydroxyurea at the discretion of the treating physician on study. Patients then receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -5 to -3 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive CD83 CAR T cells IV over 15 minutes on day 0. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) and chest x-ray during screening, blood sample collection throughout the study, and computed tomography (CT) and/or positron emission tomography (PET), as well as lumbar puncture as clinically indicated. In addition, patients may undergo bone marrow aspiration throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 weeks for 2 months then at 3, 6, and 12 months.