Intranasal Versus Intravenous Drug in Painful Procedure for Outpatient Oncologic Participants
Pain is a vital sign that depends on personal experience involving different factors such as previous sensory and emotional experience, age, spiritual and cultural aspects, that makes it harder to evaluate, especially in young children. Pain control is important to diminish the anxiety of the child and family, also this is more important in patients who require procedure and treatment that are more painful, like oncological and hematological patients. The study aims to measure if the intranasal drugs (dexmedetomidine and fentanyl) has the same outcomes when compared with intravenous drug (ketamine and midazolam), but with less side effects. The participants are patients from an oncologic outpatient, that will be submitted to cerebrospinal fluid puncture, myelogram or both will be randomized assigned to both groups. The study will compare physiological variables ( heart rate, respiratory rate and blood pressure) and sedation and pain scales to see if its work properly. The study purpose is to evaluate if intranasal drug works in the same way with less side effects comparing with the usual treatment.
Pediatric Cancer|Analgesia|Procedural Pain
DRUG: intranasal dexmedetomidine|DRUG: intranasal fentanyl|DRUG: intravenous ketamine (ketalar®)|DRUG: intravenous midazolam
Pain control, Evaluate if intranasal drugs is effective for pain relief in painful procedures for paediatric oncologic and hematologic patients. To measure it will use Face, Legs, Activity, Cry, Consolability scale (FLACC). This is a scale for pain in children, and for each sign gives 0-2 point, and 0 is no pain and 7-10 intense pain, The FLACC scale will be measure each 2 minutes up to 30 minutes.|Sedation, Evaluate if intranasal drugs is effective for sedation in painful procedures for paediatric oncologic and hematologic patients. For access this, will be use Ramsay scale, this scale range between 1 to 6. 1 is a anxious patient and 6 sleeping patient without answer, The Ramsay scale will be measure each 2 minutes up to 30 minutes.|Change in heart rate, evaluate side effects using PALS ( paediatric advanced life support) values for ages. To evaluate this, heart rate values will be noted before the procedure, during and after that and will be evaluated if there was an increase or decrease in it, respecting a significance level of 5%., each 2 minutes up to 30 minutes|Change in respiratory rate, evaluate side effects using PALS ( paediatric advanced life support) values for different ages. To evaluate this, respiratory rate values will be noted before the procedure, during and after that and will be evaluated if there was an increase or decrease in it, respecting a significance level of 5%., each 2 minutes up to 30 minutes|Change in blood pressure, evaluate side effects using PALS ( paediatric advanced life support) values for ages. To evaluate this, blood pressure value will be noted before the procedure, during and after that and will be evaluated if there was an increase or decrease in it, respecting a significance level of 5%., each 2 minutes up to 30 minutes
Comparison if intranasal drugs has the same pain relief as intravenous drugs, Using Face, Legs, Activity, Cry, Consolability (FLACC) to compare both arms. The FLACC is a scale for pain in children, and for each sign gives 0-2 point, and 0 is no pain and 7-10 intense pain, each 2 minutes up to 30 minutes|Comparison if intranasal drugs has the same sedation effects like intravenous drug, Using Ramsay scale to compare both arms, intranasal and intravenous drugs. The Ramsay scale range between 1 to 6. 1 is a anxious patient and 6 sleeping patient without answer effect in sedation., each 2 minutes after medication up to 30 minutes
Pain is a vital sign that depends on personal experience involving different factors such as previous sensory and emotional experience, age, spiritual and cultural aspects, that makes it harder to evaluate, especially in young children. Pain control is important to diminish the anxiety of the child and family, also this is more important in patients who require procedure and treatment that are more painful, like oncological and hematological patients. The study aims to measure if the intranasal drugs (dexmedetomidine and fentanyl) has the same outcomes when compared with intravenous drug (ketamine and midazolam), but with less side effects. The participants are patients from an oncologic outpatient, that will be submitted to cerebrospinal fluid puncture, myelogram or both will be randomized assigned to both groups. The study will compare physiological variables ( heart rate, respiratory rate and blood pressure) and sedation and pain scales to see if its work properly. The study purpose is to evaluate if intranasal drug works in the same way with less side effects comparing with the usual treatment.