Multimedia-based Hormonal Therapy Information Program for Patients With Prostate Cancer
This study takes place in the Divisions of Urology. Patients who have only received hormonal therapy will be enrolled. Patients will be randomly sorted into an experimental group and a control group after completing a pretest questionnaire. The experimental group will receive the the multimedia hormone therapy information program once per week for 6 consecutive weeks, while the control group will receive routine care. The follow-up data collections will be completed at 8 and 12 weeks after the pretest. For quantitative measurement, the main variables will be social support, self-efficacy, quality of life, and positive thinking.
Prostatic Neoplasms
OTHER: Multimedia-Based Hormone Therapy Information Program
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P), A total of 39 items, including five subdimensions, namely, physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, and prostate cancer subscales. A 5-point scoring method was adopted. Higher scores indicate higher quality of life, pretest|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P), A total of 39 items, including five subdimensions, namely, physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, and prostate cancer subscales. A 5-point scoring method was adopted. Higher scores indicate higher quality of life, 8 weeks after the pretest|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P), A total of 39 items, including five subdimensions, namely, physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, and prostate cancer subscales. A 5-point scoring method was adopted. Higher scores indicate higher quality of life, 12 weeks after the pretest|The Positive Thinking Scale, A total of 18 items, including two subscales of personal satisfaction and goal pursuit. A five-point (1-5) scoring method was used. Higher scores indicate a higher level of positive thinking, pretest|The Positive Thinking Scale, A total of 18 items, including two subscales of personal satisfaction and goal pursuit. A five-point (1-5) scoring method was used. Higher scores indicate a higher level of positive thinking, 8 weeks after the pretest|The Positive Thinking Scale, A total of 18 items, including two subscales of personal satisfaction and goal pursuit. A five-point (1-5) scoring method was used. Higher scores indicate a higher level of positive thinking, 12 weeks after the pretest|The Hormonal Dimension of The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite, 11 items were used, the score of each item ranges from 0 to 100 points. Higher scores indicate fewer hormonal symptoms., pretest|The Hormonal Dimension of The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite, 11 items were used, the score of each item ranges from 0 to 100 points. Higher scores indicate fewer hormonal symptoms., 8 weeks after the pretest|The Hormonal Dimension of The Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite, 11 items were used, the score of each item ranges from 0 to 100 points. Higher scores indicate fewer hormonal symptoms., 12 weeks after the pretest
The General Self-Efficacy Scale, The total scale contains 10 items and a 4-point (1-4) scoring method was adopted. Higher scores indicate higher self-efficacy, pretest|The General Self-Efficacy Scale, The total scale contains 10 items and a 4-point (1-4) scoring method was adopted. Higher scores indicate higher self-efficacy, 8 weeks after the pretest|The General Self-Efficacy Scale, The total scale contains 10 items and a 4-point (1-4) scoring method was adopted. Higher scores indicate higher self-efficacy, 12 weeks after the pretest|The Social Support Scale, A total of 16 items, including four sub-scales of emotional, informational, appraisal, and instrumental support. A 4-point scoring method (0-3) was used. Higher scores indicate stronger support., pretest|The Social Support Scale, A total of 16 items, including four sub-scales of emotional, informational, appraisal, and instrumental support. A 4-point scoring method (0-3) was used. Higher scores indicate stronger support., 8 weeks after the pretest|The Social Support Scale, A total of 16 items, including four sub-scales of emotional, informational, appraisal, and instrumental support. A 4-point scoring method (0-3) was used. Higher scores indicate stronger support., 12 weeks after the pretest
Basic and disease information list 1, Age, pretest|Basic and disease information list 2, Education level, pretest|Basic and disease information list 3, Marital status, pretest|Basic and disease information list 4, Religion, pretest|Basic and disease information list 5, Occupation, pretest|Basic and disease information list 6, Annual family income (NTD), pretest|Basic and disease information list 7, Number of children, pretest|Basic and disease information list 8, Join a support group, pretest|Basic and disease information list 9, Time since diagnosis (months), pretest|Basic and disease information list 10, Tumor-node-metastasis Cancer stage, pretest|Basic and disease information list 11, Gleason score, pretest|Basic and disease information list 12, Treatment, pretest|Basic and disease information list 13, History of chronic disease, pretest|Basic and disease information list 14, Living status, pretest|Basic and disease information list 15, Height in centimetre, pretest|Basic and disease information list 16, Body Mass Index in kg/m2 will be computed from height and body weight, pretest|Basic and disease information list 17, Body weight in kilograms, pretest|Basic and disease information list 18, Waist circumference in centimetre, pretest|Basic and disease information list 19, Serum Prostatic Specific Antigen level, pretest|Basic and disease information list 20, Serum Prostatic Specific Antigen level, 8 weeks after the pretest|Basic and disease information list 21, Serum Prostatic Specific Antigen level, 12 weeks after the pretest|Basic and disease information list 22, Perceived health status. A 11-point (0-100) scoring method was used. Higher scores indicate better health condition., pretest|Basic and disease information list 23, Perceived health status. A 11-point (0-100) scoring method was used. Higher scores indicate better health condition., 8 weeks after the pretest|Basic and disease information list 24, Perceived health status. A 11-point (0-100) scoring method was used. Higher scores indicate better health condition., 12 weeks after the pretest|List of satisfaction with Program, Five items were self-designed to understand the satisfaction of men in the experimental group. A 11-point (0-100) scoring method was used. Higher scores indicate higher satisfaction., 8 weeks after the pretest
This study takes place in the Divisions of Urology at Chang Gung Memorial Hospitals. Patients who have only received hormonal therapy will be enrolled. With reference to past research findings, self-efficacy theory, and experts' advice, a multimedia hormone therapy information program was developed. The multimedia hormone therapy information program covered 6 topics, namely the recognition of hormone therapy and multimedia information programs, mindfulness, exercise, stress relief, positive thinking, and prevention or reduction of fatigue. A pilot study will be conducted to check the feasibility of intervention study design and the effectiveness of the program will be tested. Patients will be randomly sorted into an experimental group (multimedia information group, n = 36 to 40) and a control group (routine care group, n = 36 to 40) after completing a pretest questionnaire. The experimental group will receive the multimedia information intervention once per week for 6 consecutive weeks, while the control group will receive routine care. The follow-up data collections will be completed at 8 and 12 weeks after the pretest. For quantitative measurement, the main variables will be social support, self-efficacy, quality of life, positive thinking, and satisfaction with program. Generalized Estimating Equations (GEEs) will be used to o analyze data.