An Open Label Registry Study of Lutetium-177 (DOTA0, TYR3) Octreotate (Lu-DOTA-TATE) Treatment in Patients with Somatostatin Receptor Positive Tumours
Lu-DOTA-TATE (Lutetium-177 octreotate) is a radiopharmaceutical that has been reported as being effective in controlling symptoms and increase quality of life; induce stable disease and extend progression free survival; induce a (good) partial remission and induce a complete remission in patients with a somatostatin receptor positive tumour.

The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of Lu-DOTA-TATE by measuring progression free survival and overall survival. This study will also asses the safety of Lu-DOTA-TATE, and the quality of life of the patients treated with Lu-DOTA-TATE.
Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
OTHER: Lu-DOTA-TATE
Tumour response measured by RECIST criteria, Target lesions will be assigned after treatment 1 base done either the Lu-177 scan, or the CT/MRI scan within 2 weeks prior to treatment 1. Tumour response will be measured using response evaluation criteria in solid tumours (RECIST)., 7 years (end of study)
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival will be measured from the date of enrollment to the date the target lesion progresses as per RECIST criteria, or death sue to any cause., 7 years (end of study)|Quality of Life Response Changes, Quality of life changes due to treatment with Lu-DOTA-TATE, measured using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire(QLQ) EORTC QLQ-C30., 7 years (end of study)
Neuroendocrine (NET) tumours have secretory and metabolic pathways not typically found in other cancers that can be utilized for molecular imaging and therapeutic targeting. The most important is somatostatin. Somatostatin receptors are useful tools in the diagnosis and treatment of NET tumours because the somatostatin analogue octreotate can be radiolabeled with lutetium-177 for imaging and therapy.

In selected populations of patients, radioisotope therapy in expert hands has been shown to be a safe and effective palliative therapy with stable disease, progression free survival benefit, symptom control and improvements in quality of life. Lutetium-177 (DOTA0, Tyr3) octreotate has been used in a significant number of clinical studies shown to be safe and effective as a therapeutic agent in patients with NET tumours. The investigators intend to further confirm these benefits with lutetium-177 octreotate, which could form the basis for a national registry study leading to registration of this therapeutic intervention.