Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage 0-II Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well radiation therapy works in treating patients with stage 0-II breast cancer. Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Breast Adenocarcinoma|Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
RADIATION: Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation|RADIATION: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Patient-Reported Cosmesis Score, Patient-reported cosmesis score on the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcomes Scale (BCTOS) at 1 year. Cosmesis scores range from 1 (excellent) to 4 (poor), and scores of 3 (fair) or more indicate adverse cosmetic outcomes., 1 year
Rate of CTCAE Grade 3+ Confluent Moist Desquamation, Rate of CTCAE grade 3+ confluent moist desquamation estimated within 6 weeks of radiation therapy with a 90% credible interval. If we observe CTCAE grade 3+ confluent moist desquamation in only 20 patients, then our 90% credible interval will be 7% to 13%., Within 6 weeks of radiation therapy|Percent of Patients with Local Failure, Percent of patients with local failure at 10 years estimated with an exact 95% confidence interval. If there is 1 patient with local failure at 10 years, and researchers have follow-up on all patients at 10 years, then the upper limit of the exact 95% confidence interval will be 2.8%. If researchers don't have 10 years of follow-up on all patients researchers will use the product-limit estimator of Kaplan and Meier (1958) to estimate the local failure rate at 10 years., 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the cosmesis, acute toxicity and late toxicity in patients treated with accelerated partial breast irradiation delivered with proton radiation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the convenience of accelerated partial breast irradiation and quality of life during accelerated partial breast irradiation.

II. To estimate the in-breast tumor control rates in patients treated with accelerated partial breast irradiation delivered with proton radiation.

III. Compare dosimetry to alternate treatment modalities.

OUTLINE:

Within 10 weeks of last breast cancer surgery, patients undergo accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) delivered with proton radiation twice daily (BID) for 5 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, 6 months, 1 year, and 18 months, then annually for 10 years.