Staging Endometrial caNcer Based on molEcular ClAssification
The SENECA study tries to evaluate the rate of lymph node involvement depending on the molecular subgroup in early-stage endometrial cancer (I/II) patients undergoing surgery as part of their treatment.
Endometrial Cancer|Lymph Node Metastasis|Sentinel Lymph Node
Sentinel lymph node involvement rate, Lymph node involvement rate (sentinel) for each molecular subtype in patients with stage I/II EC.(percentage), 1 month after the intervention/procedure/surgery
Lymph node involvement rate, Lymph node involvement rate (sentinel and non-sentinel) for each prognostic risk group in patients with stage I/II EC., 1 month after the intervention/procedure/surgery|Compliance of ESGO quality Indicators., Compliance of ESGO quality Indicators for center (percentage), 1 month after the intervention/procedure/surgery
The management of endometrial cancer (EC) is currently undergoing a true revolution in terms of diagnosis and treatment. Since 2013 and thanks to the TCGA project1 (The Cancer Genome Atlas), four distinct molecular subgroups (POLE, MMR-D, Copy number low, Copy number high) with distinct prognostic implications were identified.

Subsequently, PROMISE study2 brought this "new era" closer to daily clinical practice. These new findings led ESGO3 (European Society of Gynecologic Oncology) to decide to integrate this molecular classification into the definition of the different risk groups.

Currently, thanks to the retrospective analysis of the PORTEC-3 cohort4,5, we know that these four molecular subgroups may present differences in survival in high-risk patients depending on the type of treatment proposed, chemoradiotherapy vs. adjuvant radiotherapy. This question will be answered by the RAINBO trial6 (Refining Adjuvant treatment IN endometrial cancer Based On molecular profile).

On the other hand, the surgical management of early endometrial cancer (stage I/II) has been changing for some years now, especially with regard to nodal staging, from modulation of treatment depending on the risk group (pelvic lymphadenectomy +/- sentinel lymph node (SLN) for low and intermediate risk groups vs. aortopelvic lymphadenectomy +/- SLN for those at high risk) to a generalization of treatment based on detailed study of the sentinel node following the algorithm described by the group of Abu-Rustum NR et al7.

Just as the RAINBO study will try to clarify the type of adjuvant treatment necessary for each molecular subgroup, we do not currently know if it could be possible to tailor the type of lymph node staging in early EC (the most common and most frequent in our daily clinical practice) depending on the molecular subgroup8,9.

We therefore propose a study to evaluate the lymph node involvement rate depending on the molecular subgroup in early-stage EC (I/II).