Rapid Assessment of Esophageal Adenocarcinoma Risk Test
This study aims to evaluate the acceptability of a new non-invasive screening device to test for Barrett's esophagus. The investigators will prospectively enroll 100 patients to undergo Cytosponge testing. The time of involvement for an individual will range from 2 weeks to 2 months, depending on the results of the Cytosponge test and time to follow up endoscopy, if indicated.
Barrett Esophagus|Esophageal Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: Cytosponge
Participation Rate, Participation rate is defined as the percent of patients who agree to undergo Cytosponge testing among number of eligible patients offered Cytosponge testing., 1 Day|Patient Tolerability Determined by Score on Likert Scale, After undergoing the Cytosponge test, subjects will be asked to take a "Cytosponge Post-Procedure Questionnaire" to assess tolerability using a Likert scale from 1 (no discomfort) to 10 (severe discomfort) and whether they would be willing to undergo Cytosponge testing again (yes/no). The scale for each question is rated 1 to 10. Lower scores are "better" (greater tolerability for that particular measure), higher scores are "worse" (less tolerable for that particular measure). Each question on the questionnaire will be assessed independently (i.e. one score per question). No total scores are calculated., 1 Day
Positive Predictive Value (PPV), The PPV is the proportion of patients with endoscopic and histologic evidence of Barrett's esophagus on upper endoscopy from the total number of patients with TFF3-positive Cytosponge test who undergo a follow up endoscopy., 1 Day|Number of Adverse Events (AEs), Total number of all AEs related to Cytosponge testing, 1 Day|Number of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Total number of all SAEs related to Cytosponge testing, 1 Day
The incidence of esophageal adenocarcinoma (EAC) has risen over the past half century and continues to have a dismal prognosis. Even though it has been established that Barrett's esophagus (BE) is the precursor lesion to EAC, more than 90% of EAC patients are never diagnosed with BE beforehand. Thus, the opportunity is missed to identify most patients at high risk for EAC who could benefit from surveillance and early endoscopic therapy, which in turn may lower EAC mortality. Upper endoscopy is the only means to diagnose BE, yet widespread endoscopic screening is impractical and expensive. There is an urgent need to develop minimally-invasive methods of BE screening that can be easily performed in the primary care setting to allow for efficient and cost-effective interventions to decrease EAC mortality.