Early Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Cancer: the Effect of Surgery vs IMRT
This study is a multicenter RCT to compare 3-year overall survival(OS) rate, progression free survival(PFS),local progression free survival(LPFS),regional progression free survival(RPFS),distant metastasis free survival(DMFS), and toxicities of endonasal endoscopic surgery versus IMRT.
Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: endonasal endoscopic surgery|RADIATION: radiation therapy(IMRT)
3 year Overall Survival (OS) rate, The proportion of patients who survived 3 years, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause,through study completion,up to 3 years.
progression free survival(PFS), the time from randomization to the first recording of disease progression or death from any cause., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first，through study completion,up to 3 years.|Local progression free survival(LPFS), the time from randomization to local failure or death, From randomization to local failure or date of death from any cause,through study completion,up to 3 years.|Regional progression free survival(RPFS), From randomization to regional failure or death, From randomization to regional failure or date of death from any cause, through study completion,up to 3 years.|Distant metastasis free survival(DMFS), From randomization to distant metastasis or death, From randomization to distant metastasis or date of death from any cause, through study completion,up to 3 years.|toxicities, Using CTCAE Version5.0 to evaluate, From date of randomization until 3 years after randomization,through study completion,up to 3 years.
quality of life(QoL): EORTC QLQ - H&N35 questionaire, using European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionaire（EORTC QLQ）- H\&N35，All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. For all the scales and single-items a high score represents a high level of symptomatology or problems., From date of randomization until 3 years after randomization,through study completion,up to 3 years.|quality of life(QoL): EORTC QLQ - C30 questionaire, using European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionaire（EORTC QLQ) - C30 version3.0. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., From date of randomization until 3 years after randomization,through study completion,up to 3 years.
Local and regional recurrence is a common cause of failure after primary radiotherapy for nasopharyngeal carcinoma. Radiotherapy and surgery are the treatments of choice for recurrent NPC. This study aims to compare 3 year overall survival(OS) rate of surgery versus IMRT.A stratified-block randomized approach will be used to randomly assign patients into two treatment groups after stratification according to N staging (N0 vs non-N0). Patients with rNPC will be recruited and randomized into two groups in 1:1 ratio. The primary outcomes will be 3 year overall survival(OS), the secondary outcome measures will be PFS,LPFS,RPFS,DMFS,and toxicities.Assessment will be performed at baseline and during 3 years post-randomization.