Study of Propranolol Plus Sunitinib in First-line Treatment of Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
The study aims to assess antineoplastic efficacy, safety, influence on quality of life and disease-related stress of propranolol taken in combination with sunitinib in previously untreated metastatic renal cell carcinoma
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Propranolol|DRUG: Sunitinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1., Up to 18 months
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from treatment initiation to death from any cause., Up to 18 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from treatment initiation to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) according to the RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., Up to 18 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR) is defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved partial response (PR), complete response (CR) or stable disease (SD) according to the RECIST v1.1., Up to 18 months|Safety profile as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.03 summarized by type, frequency, and severity., Safety profile as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v4.03 summarized by type, frequency, and severity., Up to 18 months|Health-related Quality of Life (QoL), Change from baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) v3.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status / QoL scale, and six single items. All of the scales and single-item measures range from 0 to 100. High score for a functional scale represents a high / healthy level of functioning. High score for the global health status / QoL represents a high QoL. High score for a symptom scale / item represents a high level of symptomatology / problems. Scoring these scales include the following steps:

1. Estimate the average of the items that contribute to the scale (the raw score).
2. Use the linear transformation to standardise the raw score, so that scores range from 0 to 100; a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., Up to 18 months|Health-related Quality of Life (QoL), Change from baseline in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Kidney Symptom Index - 15., Up to 18 months|Disease-related Stress (DRS), Change from baseline in the 10-point Perceived Stress Scale (PSS).

The PSS is a validated psychological tool for assessing the perception of stress. Patient responses to all of the 10 questions present in the PSS questionnaire range from 0 to 4. To obtain a total result:

1. Reverse scores for questions 4, 5, 7, and 8.
2. Add up scores for each question to get a total result. Individual total scores range from 0 to 40. Higher scores indicate higher perceived stress., Up to 18 months|Tumour tissue and serum biomarkers status, Descriptive statistics of selected biomarkers from analysis of patient samples., Up to 18 months
The study aims to assess antineoplastic efficacy, safety, influence on quality of life and disease-related stress of propranolol taken in combination with sunitinib in previously untreated metastatic renal cell carcinoma