Teclistamab-Daratumumab and Talquestamab-Daratumumab in Newly Diagnosed High-risk Multiple Myeloma
The goal of this Phase 2, open-label, multicenter, non-randomized pilot study is to evaluate the efficacy (in terms of MRD negative CR rate after Intensification therapy) and safety of Tec-Dara (Teclistamab+Daratumumab) and Tal-Dara (Talquetamab+Daratumumab) in de novo high-risk multiple myeloma (DNHRMM) patients.
High-Risk de Novo Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Daratumumab|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Teclistamab|DRUG: Talquetamab
Evaluate efficacy in terms of Measurable Residual Disease (MRD) negative Complete Remission rate by Next Generation Flow Cytometry after Teclistamab plus Daratumumab intensification., MRD measured by Next Generation Flow Cytometry (NGF, with a sensitivity level of 10-6) after 6 cycles of Tec-Dara therapy., 22 months approximately|Evaluate efficacy in terms of Measurable Residual Disease (MRD) negative Complete Remission rate by Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography-Computerized Tomography (FDG PET-CT) scan using the Deauville score, after Tec-Dara intensification., MRD measured by Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography-Computerized Tomography (FDG PET-CT) scan., 22 months approximately
To evaluate MRD negative CR rate after Daratumumab plus bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (D-VRD) induction., MRD measured by Next Generation Flow Cytometry., 16 months approximately|To evaluate MRD negativity after Teclistamab plus Daratumumab (Tec-Dara) intensification using alternative methods, MRD negative rates measured by Next Generation Sequencing (NGS), and Quantitative Immunoprecipitation Free Light Chain Mass Spectrometry (QIP-FLC-MS) after 6 cycles of Tec-Dara therapy., 22 months approximately|To evaluate MRD conversion after early rescue intervention with Talqutamab plus Daratumumab (Tal-Dara), Percentage of patients converting from positive MRD to negative MRD evaluated by NGF, NGS, QIP-MS-FLC and FDG-PET-CT scan., 4 years approximately|To evaluate MRD conversion after Tec-Dara intensification, Percentage of patients converting from positive MRD after D-VRD induction to negative MRD evaluated by NGF, NGS, QIP-MS-FLC and FDGPET-CT scan after Tec-Dara intensification., 22 months approximately|To evaluate sustained MRD negativity during maintenance treatment in both Tec-Dara and Tal-Dara treatment arms, Proportion of patients with persistent MRD negative disease at month 6, 12, 18 and 24 of maintenance treatment in both Tec-Dara and TalDara treatment, by NGF, NGS, QIP-MS-FLC and FDG-PET-CT scan and annually thereafter., 76 months approximately|To assess reappearance of MRD positivity or relapse from CR in patients during the Tec-Dara treatment., Proportion of patients relapsing from MRD negative CR to MRD positive or who relapse from CR (not fulfilling criteria for disease progression) during any phase of Tec-Dara treatment (intensification or maintenance)., 46 months|To assess Time to PFS, PFS is defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the date of first documented disease progression, as defined in the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. For subjects who have not progressed and are alive, data will be censored at the last disease evaluation before the start of any subsequent anti-myeloma therapy. PFS is measured in months., 76 months approximately|To assess Time to EFS, EFS is defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the date of first documentation of an event. Definition of event for EFS calculation is: relapse from CR, conversion from Measurable Residual Disease (MRD) negativity (absence of phenotypically aberrant clonal plasma cells by next generation flow with a sensitivity level of 10-6 using the EuroFlow standard operation procedure and complete metabolic response by PET-CT (Deauville score ≤ 3)) to MRD positivity (presence of phenotypically aberrant clonal plasma cells by next generation flow with a sensitivity level of 10-6 using the EuroFlow standard operation procedure and complete metabolic response by PET-CT (Deauville score ≤ 3)), disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. For subjects who have not experience any of these events, data will be censored at the last visit. EFS is measured in months., 76 months approximately|To assess Time to TNT, TNT is defined as the time between date of first dose of study drug and the first dose of the next treatment received. TNT is measured in months., 76 months approximately|To assess Time to DoR, DoR is the date of initial documentation of a response (Partial Response or better) to the date of first documented evidence of progressive disease, as defined in the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria. Relapse from complete response is not considered as disease progression. For subjects who have not progressed, data will be censored at the last disease evaluation before the start of any subsequent anti-myeloma therapy. DoR is measured in months, 76 months approximately|To assess Time to OS, OS is defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the date of the subject's death. If the subject is alive or the vital status is unknown, then the subject's data will be censored at the date the subject was last known to be alive. OS is measured in months., 76 months approximately|To assess the safety of the treatment described in the protocol, Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, 76 months approximately|Immune profiling and genetic characterization, Analysis of immune subpopulation and genetic markers, 76 months approximately
A total of 30 transplant eligible or elderly fit patients with high risk multiple myeloma will be enrolled

1. Patients will receive a 4-cycle Dara+VRD (daratumumab, bortezomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone) INDUCTION therapy. Cycles will be of 28 days (4-week cycles) in duration for daratumumab and for VRD.

After the 4-cycle Induction, all patients will receive the 1st INTENSIFICATION treatment which consists of 6 cycles of Tec-Dara. Cycles will be of 28 days (4-week cycles) in duration for daratumumab and for teclistamab.

1st Intsensification, patients will receive a 6-cycle Dara+Teclistamab.

2. At the end of 1st Intensification timepoint treatments depends on MRD status:

2.1) MRD negative patients in CR at the end of Intensification will receive MAINTENANCE therapy with Tec-Dara continuously for 2 years. Cycles will be of 28-days in duration for Tec-Dara. Teclistamab (SC) and daratumumab (SC).

2.2) MRD positive patients or patients who didn't achieve CR despite MRD negativity, will have EARLY RESCUE INTERVENTION (ERI) with Tal-Dara for 6 cycles. MRD and response will be evaluated again after 6 cycles treatment with Tal-Dara. MRD negative patients in CR will receive continuous treatment with Tal-Dara for 2 years.

2.2.1 Early Rescue Intervention with Tal-Dara: Patients who are MRD+ after intensification or who convert from MRD negative into positive or experience a relapse from CR (without fulfilling criteria for disease progression) at any time during Tec-Dara treatment will have ERI with Tal-Dara. Cycles will be of 28 days in duration.

2.2.2. MRD negative patients in CR will receive continuous treatment with Tal-Dara for 2 years. Cycles will be of 28-days of duration for Tal-Dara.

4. SALVAGE therapy: If the patient remains MRD+ or doesn't achieve CR despite MRD negativity after 6 cycles of ERI with Tal-Dara or has disease progression at any time, further treatment will be offered as per the investigation decision outside of the study.