Biweekly SOLAR, as First-line C/T in Pts With Gastric, Pancreatic and Biliary Cancers
The primary purpose of the study is to determine the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of Oxaliplatin in this phase I study. The secondary objectives are to determine the response rate, progression free survival, overall survival, and safety profiles.

Eligible patients will receive a triplet chemotherapy consisting of nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane®) 150 mg/m2 IVD 30 min followed by Oxaliplatin 60 - 85 mg/m2 IVD 2hr at D1, plus oral S-1 35mg/m2 and Leucovorin 30mg twice daily from D1 to D7, every 14 days as a cycle till disease progression.
Gastric Cancer in Situ|Pancreatic Cancers|Biliary Cancers
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel /nab-Paclitaxel|DRUG: S-1|DRUG: LV
MTD of Oxaliplatin, Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT),patients will be enrolled in cohort of 3 to receive escalating dose of Oxaliplatin at three dose levels (level I, 60 mg/m2, level II, 75 mg/m2 and level III, 85 mg/m2)or more of defined events., From date of registration until the date of definition of MTD or first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 28weeks.
tumor response, Efficacy evaluations: objective tumor response according to RECIST 1.1, From date of registration until the date of definition of MTD or first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 28weeks.|Overall survival, Overall survival: defined as the time from the date of first study treatment to the date of patient death, due to any cause, or to the last date the patient was known to be alive. The primary analysis population for the overall survival will be per-protocol population. The endpoint will also be analyzed in the intent-to-treat population. Kaplan-Meier estimates will be calculated for the overall survival., Overall survival will be assessed. From date of registration until the date of death, assessed up to 60 months.
Eligible patients will receive a triplet chemotherapy consisting of nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane®) 150 mg/m2 IVD 30 min followed by Oxaliplatin 60 - 85 mg/m2 IVD 2hr at D1, plus oral S-1 35mg/m2 and Leucovorin 30mg twice daily from D1 to D7, every 14 days as a cycle till disease progression.

In this study (a standard 3 x 3 design), patients will be enrolled in cohort of 3 to receive escalating dose of Oxaliplatin at three dose levels (level I, 60 mg/m2, level II, 75 mg/m2 and level III, 85 mg/m2). Intra-patient dose escalation will not be allowed. If none of the first 3 patients of a cohort experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT), then dose escalation will proceed for next cohort of patients. If 1 of 3 patients developed DLT, the cohort will be expanded to 6 patients. If ≤2 patients of the 6 patients experience DLT, then dose escalation will proceed in next study cohort unless 85 mg/m2 have reached. If 2 of the first 3 or ≥3 of 6 patients developed DLT at certain dose level, then dose escalation will be withheld and the prior dose level will be the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). A minimum of 6 evaluable patients will be treated at the MTD dose level with no more than 2 of the 6 patients having DLT at this dose level. The MTD will be considered as the recommended dose for future Phase II studies. The number of patient accrual will range from 12 and 18 (6/dose level) evaluable patients in the dose-finding stage to determine the MTD of Oxaliplatin in this combination regimen.

Of patients who experience grade 2 sensory neuropathy after the triplet chemotherapy, Oxaliplatin will be omitted (only nab-paclitaxel plus S-1/LV will be continued) until the recovery of sensory neuropathy to grade 1 or less then Oxaliplatin will be re-instituted.

CBC/DC, AST/ALT and BUN/Cr will be determined at baseline and every 2 weeks during study period. Serum level of albumin, bilirubin (T), LDH, Alk-P/GGT, Na/K/Mg/Ca/P and CRP will be determined at baseline and every 4 weeks during the treatment. Radiographic objective tumor response assessment, according to RECIST version 1.1, by CT scan or MRI at baseline, and then every 6 weeks during the study period. Tumor marker, CEA and CA 19-9, will be evaluated at baseline and every 4 weeks during the treatment.