Simvastatin in Overcoming Chemotherapy Resistance in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This pilot clinical trial studies how well simvastatin works in overcoming chemotherapy resistance in patients with multiple myeloma that has come back or does not respond to treatment. Simvastatin may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Simvastatin
Change in free light chain ratios, The success rate will be estimated overall and within the strata groups and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated around the estimate. Will also estimate the change in free light chain ratios and provide confidence intervals for those estimates, both overall and within groups., Up to 126 Days|Change in M-protein level measured using electrophoresis, The success rate will be estimated overall and within the strata groups and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated around the estimate. Will also estimate the change in M-proteins and provide confidence intervals for those estimates, both overall and within groups., Up to 126 Days
DOR, Will estimate the mean duration of response and provide confidence intervals in the subset of patients who respond. The proportion (with confidence interval) of subjects achieving a clinical benefit response will be calculated., Up to 28 months|Incidence of toxicities evaluated according to National Cancer Institute CTCAE version 4.0, Toxicity data (both frequency and severity) will be summarized descriptively by showing the number of subjects experiencing each type of toxicity by grade for those with a grade 2 or higher., Up to 28 months|OR including stringent complete remission (CR), CR, Partial Remission (PR), and very good PR, The proportion (with confidence interval) of subjects achieving a clinical benefit response will be calculated., Up to 28 months|Overall survival, Will be analyzed initially using Kaplan-Meier estimation., Up to 28 months|PFS, Will be analyzed initially using Kaplan-Meier estimation., Up to 28 months|QoL assessed using a survey designed by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), Quality of life outcomes from the EORTC survey will be summarized descriptively., Up to 126 Days|Response in patients who did and did not receive zoledronic acid with therapy, Subset analysis will be done on patients who received zoledronic acid as part of their treatment while on study vs those who did not receive zoledronic acid to assess differences in response., Up to 28 months|Time to first response, Will be analyzed initially using Kaplan-Meier estimation., Up to 28 months|Time to next therapy, Will be analyzed initially using Kaplan-Meier estimation., Up to 28 months|TTP, Will be analyzed initially using Kaplan-Meier estimation., Up to 28 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the effect of simvastatin on myeloma (M)-protein and/or free light chains ratio when added to conventional chemotherapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma patients who have received up to 3 (=\< 3) and \> 3 different chemotherapy regimens. (group A and group B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS), time to progression (TTP), and duration of response (DOR) in group A, group B, and both groups combined.

II. To describe toxicities (frequency and severity during the treatment) in group A, group B, and both groups combined.

III. To estimate overall response (OR) in group A, group B, and both groups combined.

IV. To evaluate the quality of life (QoL) of patients on the combined treatment in group A, group B, and both groups combined.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive standard of care chemotherapy for up to 3 courses and simvastatin orally (PO) daily 2 days before the first dose of chemotherapy for up to 2 days after the last dose of chemotherapy. Treatment with simvastatin continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3-5 weeks for the first 6 months, and every 1-3 months thereafter.