Streamlined Geriatric and Oncological Evaluation Based On IC Technology
The primary objective of GERONTE STUDY is to evaluate the effectiveness of the GERONTE, ICT-based, integrated care pathway to improve patient 6-month quality of life, in France.

Study design is a stepped wedge randomised controlled trial. Clusters will be participating hospitals, comprising eight investigating sites in total (Figure 2).

This is a stepped wedge of cross-over type. Patients included at each "step" are different individuals. The first "step" is a reference measurement where none of the clusters will implement the intervention. The investigating sites will be randomly drawn to determine the order in which they will implement the intervention, by "steps" of two months.

The primary endpoint is the Quality of Life assessed by the EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3.0) questionnaire at 6 months after GERONTE implementation. It has 3 sub-scores that will be analysed independently, with alpha risk adjustment.
Breast Cancer|Comorbidities and Coexisting Conditions|Lung Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Prostate Cancer
OTHER: GERONTE
Quality of life assessed by the EORTC quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30 ), Quality of life assessed by the quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) questionnaire at 6 months after inclusion:

* Normalised global health status score
* Normalised score of the physical functioning scale
* Normalised score of the emotional functioning scale the minimum value of the EORTC QLQ-C30 is 30 and the maximum value is 126, and higher scores mean a worse result., 6 months
Quality of life of elders cancer patients, Scores of the quality of life questionnaire for elderly cancer patients.(QLQ-ELD14). The minimum value is 14 and the maximum value is 40, and higher scores mean a worse result., baseline 3, 9 and 12 months|Quality of life by the EORTC quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30 ), The quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) scores. The minimum value of the EORTC QLQ-C30 is 30 and the maximum value is 126, and higher scores mean a worse result., baseline 3, 9 and 12 months|Survival, Overall survival and progression-free survival, at 12 months|Patient frailty, Score of the Clinical frailty scale, baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Patient autonomy,, Dependence score of the Activities of Daily Living scale (ADL); Proportion of patients living at home; Number of completed chair stands in 30 seconds, baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Patient weight evolution, Weight in Kilograms, baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Patient anxiety, Score of Hospital Anxiety and Depression (HAD) scale. The minimum value is 0 and the maximum value is 21, and higher scores mean a worse result., baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|institutionalisation, Proportion of patient institutionalised per participants, 6 and 12 months|unscheduled hospitalisations, Proportion of unscheduled hospitalisations per participants, 6 and 12 months|Cost per life years gained, using utility assessed through normalised scores of EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Caregiver burden in health, psychological well-being, finances, social life and relationship with patient, Zarit Burden Interview, baseline, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|Patient experience of person-centered coordinated care, Person-Centered Coordinated Care Experience Questionnaire (P3CEQ)The minimum value is 0 and the maximum value is 45, and higher scores mean a better result., 6 and 12 months|Patient, physician and health-professionals-reported overall satisfaction with the IC technology of the GERONTE system, Score derived from the mHealth App Usability Questionnaire (MAUQ) for standalone mHealth Apps using the Patient version for patient satisfaction and the provider version for physician and health-professional.The minimum value is 0 and the maximum value is 126, and higher scores mean a better result., 6 and 12 months|GERONTE patient-centered system implementation and usage, use of the myPatientSpace adapted for GERONTE app measures, for instance: number and frequency of connections., 6 months
This is a stepped wedge of cross-over type. Patients included at each "step" are different individuals. The first "step" is a reference measurement where none of the clusters will implement the intervention. The investigating sites will be randomly drawn to determine the order in which they will implement the intervention, by "steps" of two months. A total of 10 patients by step are to be included in each center; these 10 patients must be regularly included along the 2-month period of each step. If 10 patients are already included before the end of the 2 months' step period, the center has to stop the inclusions till the beginning of the subsequent step. If a center, near to the end of a step, is far from reaching of the 10 patients' inclusion, it must increase the speed of its inclusions to be as close as possible of 10 patients included at the end of the step. In each center, patient sample has to be representative of type of cancer managed in the center, along the trial duration. The repartition of cancer types must be homogeneous along the steps and during the trial duration.

All participating investigating sites will have study collaborators in charge of organizing intervention implementation and data collection. The intervention will be prepared prior to the start of the trial, so that each investigating site can implement it as defined by the randomisation. Each center engaged to participate needs to participate till the end of the trial. A center commitment to participate will be requested before each center involvement to avoid center withdrawal after the start of the trial. Quantitative data regarding the myPatientSpace adapted for GERONTE app usage will be collected at each step and in each cluster by study collaborators, from the beginning of GERONTE system implementation. Care outcome data (Quality of life, anxiety, autonomy, additional hospitalisation, mortality...) will be collected by local referents at 3, 6, 9 and 12 months after inclusion in GERONTE. The data necessary to calculate the real cost of the intervention, of its implementation and of resource use data of patient management will be continuously collected during follow-up. GERONTE patient-centered system implementation and usage will be collected by the local referents in each center. Qualitative analysis will be performed in each center at GERONTE system implementation and during follow-up.