Dermoscopic Monitoring of Pediatric Melanocytic Nevi Regarding Pattern and Diameter Changes
Childhood and adolescence are a dynamic process in terms of nevogenesis, and the development and growth of new melanocytic nevus is frequently observed. Melanomas, although rare, can also be seen in the pediatric age group. Therefore, nevus monitoring with videodermoscopy may be necessary in the pediatric age group. Aim of our study is to show the dynamic pattern and diameter modifications in pediatric nevi.
Nevus, Pigmented
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Videodermoscopy
Pediatric nevi diameter change in millimeters, 1.Nevus diameter change at 3/12/36th months (measurement of longest axis of nevus as millimeters with videodermoscopy), 3-36 months|Pediatric nevi pattern change, Nevus pattern change at 3/12/36th months (pattern is categorized as globular/reticular/homogenous/fibrillar/parallel furrow or combinations), 3-36 months|Presence of peripheral globules, Peripheral globules will be recorded if present and will be categorized as (increased, decreased or no change) at the 3/12/36th months, 3-36 months
Aim of our study is to show the dynamic pattern and diameter modifications in pediatric nevi. Patients who applied to the Dermatology Clinic of Istanbul Training and Research Hospital between January 2008 and January 2022, were diagnosed with pediatric melanocytic nevus clinically and dermoscopically were included. Patients who had records for at least twice with videodermoscopy every 3 months were included. In the study, 301 pediatric melanocytic nevi belonging to 50 patients were evaluated.

The following characteristics were recorded in a database specifically designed for the study:Demographic findings of the patients, nevus localization, nevus pattern (baseline and follow-up), nevus diameter (base line and follow-up at 3/12/36th months), histopathological results of nevi that underwent total excision were recorded. The change in nevus diameter during follow-up was measured in millimeters based on the longest axis. Presence of peripheral globules, outcome of peripheral globules, characteristics of peripheral globules were recorded. Characteristics of peripheral globules were evaluated according to being around the entire lesion (circumferential) versus focally presence, typical (uniform shape and colors) and being regular (single rim of globules or multiple rim of globules)