Stereotactic Radiotherapy for Sinonasal Malignancy
Sinonasal Tumors are a rare type of head and neck tumor, accounting for approximately 3% of head and neck cancers. Treatment primarily involves surgical intervention, with radiation therapy as an adjunct. Due to the tumor\&#39;s anatomical location near critical structures such as the eyes, optic nerves, optic chiasm, brainstem, and oral cavity, if the tumor cannot be completely resected, postoperative radiation therapy is often necessary. Given the complexity of the tumor\&#39;s anatomical position, subsequent radiation therapy planning becomes more challenging, as it must balance tumor control and organ preservation. This study retrospectively analyzes patients with sinonasal tumors who received stereotactic radiosurgery (CyberKnife) at our hospital, comparing the dosimetric advantages, treatment efficacy, survival analysis, and side effects with those of volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT).
Head and Neck Neoplasms
RADIATION: SBRT by Cyberknife
Overall Survival, OS, Determine the start dates of surgery and radiotherapy from the hospital\&#39;s medical record system, and collect data on death events, regardless of whether they are tumor-related., Data within five years after treatment.|Disease-Free Survival, DFS, Determine the treatment start date from the hospital\&#39;s medical record system, and confirm whether there is any disease recurrence or progression through follow-up data or imaging examination results., Data within five years after treatment|Local Control, LC, Measure the proportion of no recurrence in the local tumor area after treatment. Researchers determine the treatment start date from the hospital\&#39;s medical record system and confirm the presence or absence of local tumor recurrence through follow-up data, imaging examinations, and pathology results., The observation periods are 1 year, 3 years, and 5 years after treatment.|Distant Metastasis-Free Survival, DMFS, Measure the time until the occurrence of distant metastasis after treatment. Researchers first determine the treatment start date, and then assess distant metastasis through data, imaging examinations, and clinical evaluations., The observation periods are 1 year, 3 years,and 5 years after treatment.
treatment-related side effects, Acute or chronic side effects caused by treatment can include radiation dermatitis, dry mouth, vision impairment, and so on., complications related to treatment within 30 days|Dosimetric Outcomes, The quality of a radiation therapy plan can be assessed through dose uniformity and dose constraints for adjacent critical organs (such as the optic nerve and brainstem). Researchers first collect dose distribution data from the treatment planning system and use dose calculation software to analyze dose uniformity indices (such as the homogeneity index) to evaluate the distribution of doses. At the same time, dose constraint standards for adjacent critical organs are established to ensure that the doses to these organs remain within safe limits during treatment. These indicators reflect the quality of the radiation therapy plan and can help researchers assess the safety and efficacy of the treatment., Data for five years after treatment.
Sinonasal Tumors are a rare type of head and neck tumor, accounting for approximately 3% of head and neck cancers. Treatment primarily involves surgical intervention, with radiation therapy as an adjunct. Due to the tumor\&#39;s anatomical location near critical structures such as the eyes, optic nerves, optic chiasm, brainstem, and oral cavity, if the tumor cannot be completely resected, postoperative radiation therapy is often necessary. Given the complexity of the tumor\&#39;s anatomical position, subsequent radiation therapy planning becomes more challenging, as it must balance tumor control and organ preservation. This study retrospectively analyzes patients with sinonasal tumors who received stereotactic radiosurgery (CyberKnife) at our hospital, comparing the dosimetric advantages, treatment efficacy, survival analysis, and side effects with those of volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT).