Testing Ado-Trastuzumab Emtansine as a Potential Targeted Treatment in Cancers With HER2 Genetic Changes (MATCH-Subprotocol Q)
This phase II MATCH treatment trial identifies the effects of ado-trastuzumab emtansine in patients whose cancer has a genetic change called HER2 amplification. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine is a monoclonal antibody, called trastuzumab, linked to a chemotherapy drug called DM1. Trastuzumab is a form of "targeted therapy", because it works by attaching itself to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as HER2 receptors and delivers DM1 to kill them. Researchers hope to learn if the study drug will shrink this type of cancer or stop its growth.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Emtansine
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients whose tumors have a complete or partial response to treatment among eligible and treated patients. Objective response rate is defined consistent with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. For each treatment arm, 90% two-sided binomial exact confidence interval will be calculated for ORR., Tumor assessments occurred at baseline, then every 3 cycles for the first 33 cycles and every 4 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
6 Months Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate, Progression free survival is defined as time from treatment start date to date of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. 6 month PFS rate was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, which can provide a point estimate for any specific time point., Assessed at baseline, then every 3 cycles for the first 33 cycles and every 4 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival is defined as time from treatment start date to date of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Median PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Assessed at baseline, then every 3 cycles for the first 33 cycles and every 4 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response (OR) to targeted study agent(s) in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with targeted study agent in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

II. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. III. To identify potential predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and imaging-based assessment platforms.

IV. To assess whether radiomic phenotypes obtained from pre-treatment imaging and changes from pre- through post-therapy imaging can predict objective response and progression free survival and to evaluate the association between pre-treatment radiomic phenotypes and targeted gene mutation patterns of tumor biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trastuzumab emtansine intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if less than 2 years from study entry, and then every 6 months for year 3 from study entry.