A Neoadjuvant Study of Abiraterone Acetate, Leuprolide Acetate, and Belzutifan in Men With Regional Prostate Cancer
For men with prostate cancer that involves the nearby lymph nodes (N1) standard treatment varies. Many men undergo radical prostatectomy (total removal of the prostate) along with the removal of nearby lymph nodes. Other men may opt for androgen deprivation therapy (ADT, a therapy that blocks testosterone) using the two drugs leuprolide and abiraterone - with or without radiation. This research is being done to investigate whether the use of leuprolide and abiraterone, when given in combination with a drug that blocks a molecule that senses oxygen needs by cancer cells, belzutifan, can kill cancer cells in the body prior in men who are planning on having the prostate surgically removed.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Neoadjuvant treatment
Rate of near pathological complete response (pCR), The rate of near pathological complete response (i.e. ≤5 mm of residual tumor) as assessed on prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant leuprolide acetate, abiraterone acetate, and belzutifan., 12 weeks
Negative Margin Rate, The negative margin rate as assessed on prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant treatment, 12 weeks|Rate of Pathologic T3 disease, The rate of pathologic T3 disease as assessed on prostatectomy specimens following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant treatment., 12 weeks|Rate of radiographic disappearance of prostate nodules, Rate of radiographic disappearance of MRI detectable significant prostate nodules (i.e. ≥0.5 cm in size) following 3-months (12 weeks) of neoadjuvant treatment., 12 weeks|Proportion of participants receiving adjuvant radiation therapy, The proportion of men who receive adjuvant radiation therapy within 1-year of prostatectomy., Up to 1 year after prostatectomy|Biochemical progression measured by Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), The biochemical (i.e. PSA) progression free survival estimate two years after the last patient has accrued (i.e. confirmed PSA post-radical prostatectomy ≥0.2 ng/mL)., 2 years
Overall Survival Estimate of Participants, The overall survival estimate two years after the last patient has accrued., 2 years
Eligible participants will receive 1 dose of leuprolide on day 1 as a subcutaneous injection and abiraterone and belzutifan as pills to take every day for 89 days. Participants will then undergo radical prostatectomy as a standard of care to treat prostate cancer approximately 2 weeks after finishing the study drugs. Participants will have PSA checked 1 year and 2 years after surgery. The list of study procedures (some of which are likely to be part of regular cancer care) will include the collection of data from medical records, imaging tests (CT/MRI/ Prostate-Specific Membrane Antigen Scan PSMA/ Positron Emission Tomography PET CT) to evaluate tumors, and blood collection.