FOLFOXIRI Plus Panitumumab In Kras and Braf Wild-Type Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
The GONO-FOLFOXIRI regimen demonstrated higher activity and efficacy compared to FOLFIRI in a phase III trial. Panitumumab with oxaliplatin- or irinotecan-based doublets is feasible and associated with improved activity in KRAS codon 12-13 wild-type patients. BRAF and other RAS rare mutations have been suggested as additional potential biomarkers for anti-EGFR agents in metastatic colo-rectal cancer. The present study aims to demonstrate the feasibility and the activity of the first-line combination of the GONO-FOLFOXIRI regimen and Panitumumab in molecularly selected metastatic colo-rectal cancer patients.
Metastatic Colo-rectal Cancer
DRUG: FOLFOXIRI + Panitumumab
Response Rate, Response rate is defined as the fraction of treated patients who achieve a response as defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria vers. 1.1., Up to 3 years (objective response will be evaluated every 8 weeks)
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as time from study entry until progression of disease (according to RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause. Patients who are alive without having progressed at the end of the study will be censored at their last radiological assessment., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from study entry until death from any cause. Patients who are alive at the end of the study will be censored at that point., Up to 3 years|Safety Profile, Safety Profile is based on the collection of all the adverse events occurring during the study graded by NCI-CTC criteria., Up to 3 years|Secondary Radical Surgery on Metastases, Secondary Radical Surgery on Metastases is defined as microscopically margin-free complete surgical removal of all residual disease performed during treatment or after its completion allowed by tumoral shrinkage and or desappearance of one or more lesions., Up to 3 years|Analyses of Potential Predictive Factors, Exploratory analyses of potential predictive factors and surrogate markers of treatment activity or efficacy., Up to 3 years
The GONO-FOLFOXIRI regimen demonstrated higher activity and efficacy compared to FOLFIRI in a phase III trial. Panitumumab with oxaliplatin- or irinotecan-based doublets is feasible and associated with improved activity in KRAS codon 12-13 wild-type patients. BRAF and other RAS rare mutations have been suggested as additional potential biomarkers for anti-EGFR agents in metastatic colo-rectal cancer. The present study aims to demonstrate the feasibility and the activity of the first-line combination of the GONO-FOLFOXIRI regimen and Panitumumab in molecularly selected metastatic colo-rectal cancer patients.