Trebananib in Treating Patients With Advanced Angiosarcoma That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well trebananib works in treating patients with advanced angiosarcoma that cannot be removed by surgery. Trebananib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Adult Angiosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage III Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Trebananib
Confirmed Response Rate (CR or PR) Using RECIST, Response and progression will be evaluated using the international RECIST guidelines (v1.1). Patients are evaluated every 8 weeks for disease status, with a subsequent 4 week assessment required to confirm a response.

Complete Response (CR) - All of the following must be true:

1. Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions,
2. Each target lesion and non-target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0 cm.

Partial Response (PR):

1. At least a 30% decrease from the baseline measurements of the sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation.
2. Persistence of one or more non-target lesions or non-target lymph nodes. The confirmed response rate is estimated as the number of patients having a CR or PR, divided by the number of eligible patients having at least one post-baseline assessment. The 95% confidence intervals provided using the method of Duffy and Santner., Up to 18 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from the start of treatment to time of radiologic or clinical progression or death, whichever occurs first. PFS will be censored at most recent radiographic assessment date for patients remaining alive at the time of the statistical analysis. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of PFS., From the start of treatment to time of radiologic or clinical progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 18 months|OS, Overall survival (OS) is the duration of time from the date of registration/randomization to the date of death or the date of last follow-up for patients who remain alive or who are lost to follow-up at the time of the analysis. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of OS., From the date of registration to the date of death or the date of last follow-up, assessed up to 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), defined as complete response (CR) +partial response (PR), in patients with advanced, unresectable angiosarcoma treated with trebananib (AMG 386).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with advanced, unresectable angiosarcoma treated with AMG 386.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate ORR, PFS, and OS with: Baseline and post-treatment changes in expression of angiopoietin 2 (Ang2) and TEK tyrosine kinase, endothelial (Tie2) by immunohistochemistry (IHC); Serum levels of angiopoietin 1 (Ang1) and Ang2; Baseline and post-treatment changes in phospho-receptor tyrosine kinase status of TIE2, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2), phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K), mitogen-activated protein kinase Inhibitor (MEK) in tumor tissue; Mutational status of VEGFR-2 and amplification of v-myc myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (avian) (MYC)/fms-related tyrosine kinase 4 (FLT4).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trebananib intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 4 weeks and then every 6 months for 18 months.