Precision-Based Magnesium Trial
Colorectal cancer is the fourth most common incident cancer and the second most common cause of cancer death in the United States, with approximately 150,000 new cases and 57,000 deaths per year. High calcium intake and magnesium may protect against colorectal cancer and adenoma, however, results have been inconsistent. We found that genetic makeup, associated with magnesium absorption and re-absorption, significantly interacted with the calcium and magnesium ratio in relation to the both adenomatous and hyperplastic polyps. Participants who carried at least one 1482Ile allele (G-\>A)of TRPM7 and who consumed diets with a high calcium/magnesium ratio were at a higher risk of adenoma and hyperplastic polyps than were participants who did not carry the polymorphism. We hypothesize that the reduction in the dietary Ca/Mg ratio may change the markers directly related to tumorigenesis. The primary aims of this study are to conduct a randomized placebo-controlled intervention trial to test whether reducing the Ca/mg intake ratio through magnesium supplementation has effects on the related biomarkers. We will also examine whether the effect of modulating Ca/Mg intake ratio may be more pronounced among those who carry the 1482Ile allele compared those who don't carry the 1482Ile allele. Results from our study will help to identify people at a high risk of colorectal adenoma and to develop personalized strategies to prevent occurrence of colorectal adenoma, and thus, colorectal cancer through dietary change or nutritional fortification.
Colorectal Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Magnesium glycinate|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
The protein expression levels of TRPM7, MLKL in colorectal mucosa, TRPM7 and MLKL have been detected using immunohistochemical (IHC) techniques., 12 week (rectal biopsies will be collected at the baseline and the end of the intervention)|Ratios of Ki67:BAX, Ki67:TUNEL in rectal epithelial, Ki67:BAX and Ki67:TUNEL have been analyzed using immunohistochemical (IHC) techniques., 12 week (rectal biopsies will be collected at the baseline and the end of the intervention)|Expression of Cox2 in rectal epithelia, Cox2 has been analyzed using immunohistochemical (IHC), 12 week (rectal biopsies will be collected at the baseline and the end of the intervention)
Serum magnesium, Serum magnesium concentration was determined using 7D70 Magnesium Reagent Kit from Abbot Laboratories (Abbott Park, IL) the assay was conducted at the Vanderbilt Pathology Laboratory Services., 12 week|Post treatment body magnesium status, Body magnesium status obtained using magnesium tolerance test (MTT), 12 week after treatment|Circulation 25-Hydroxyvitamin D, 12 week|Serum C-reactive protein concentration, Assays of CRP for 180 participants were performed using immuno turbidimetric immunoassay based commercial assay kits (Pointe Scientific, Inc, Canton, MI) at Vanderbilt Lipid Laboratory, 12 week|Urine excretion of prostaglandin E2 metabolite (PGE-M), Urinary PGE-M level was measured using a liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometric method at the Integrated Health Sciences Facility Core of the Vanderbilt Center in Molecular Toxicology., 12 week
Colorectal cancer is the fourth most common incident cancer and the second most common cause of cancer death in the United States, with approximately 150,000 new cases and 57,000 deaths per year. High calcium intake and magnesium may protect against colorectal cancer and adenoma, however, results have been inconsistent. We found that genetic makeup, associated with magnesium absorption and re-absorption, significantly interacted with the calcium and magnesium ratio in relation to the both adenomatous and hyperplastic polyps. Participants who carried at least one 1482Ile allele (G-\>A)of TRPM7 and who consumed diets with a high calcium/magnesium ratio were at a higher risk of adenoma and hyperplastic polyps than were participants who did not carry the polymorphism. We hypothesize that the reduction in the dietary Ca/Mg ratio may change the markers directly related to tumorigenesis. The primary aims of this study are to conduct a randomized placebo-controlled intervention trial to test whether reducing the Ca/mg intake ratio through magnesium supplementation has effects on the related biomarkers. We will also examine whether the effect of modulating Ca/Mg intake ratio may be more pronounced among those who carry the 1482Ile allele compared those who don't carry the 1482Ile allele. Results from our study will help to identify people at a high risk of colorectal adenoma and to develop personalized strategies to prevent occurrence of colorectal adenoma, and thus, colorectal cancer through dietary change or nutritional fortification.