A Study to Evaluate HMPL-306 in Patients With IDH1- and IDH2-mutated Acute Myeloid Leukemia
An open-label design is adopted in this study. All patients will first undergo pre-screening to determine the mutation status of IDH, and all patients will be assigned to the registry study of the corresponding cohorts of IDH1 and IDH2 based on the pre-screening results. Patients with both IDH1 and IDH2 mutations will be enrolled in the IDH2 cohort. This study is divided into two cohorts. Cohort 1 includes R/R AML patients with IDH1-R132 mutations; Cohort 2 includes R/R AML patients with IDH2-R140 and R172 mutations. The two cohorts are designed independently and will be analyzed separately for statistical hypothesis testing. Patients in both cohorts will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio according to the central Interactive Web Response System (IWRS) into the test or control group, patients in the test group will receive HMPL-306 monotherapy at a dose of 250 mg once daily (QD) (Cycle 1, C1) + 150 mg QD \[starting from Cycle 2 (C2)\]. Patients in the control group will receive salvage chemotherapy (one of four options) consisting of two intensive chemotherapy regimens (MEC regimen and FLAG ± Ida regimen) and two non-intensive chemotherapy regimens (azacitidine and LoDAC)
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: HMPL-306 Regimen|DRUG: Salvage Chemotherapy Regimen
OS, Overall survival (OS), Up to approximately 33 months
CR rate, Proportion of patients who achieve a complete remission (CR), Up to approximately 33 months|CR + CRh rate, Proportion of patients who achieve complete remission plus complete remission with partial hematologic recovery rate, Up to approximately 33 months|CR + CRi + CRh rate, Proportion of patients who achieve complete remission plus complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery and partial hematologic recovery rate, Up to approximately 33 months|Assessments for PK (pharmacokinetics), Maximum Plasma concentration (Cmax) of drug, Day1 of cycle 1, 3, 5 (each cycle is 28 days)，up to approximately 33 months|Assessments for PK (pharmacokinetics), Trough plasma concentration (Ctrough) of drug, Day1 of cycle 1, 3, 5 (each cycle is 28 days)，up to approximately 33 months|Duration of response (DOR), Duration of CR (DoCR), duration of CR + CRh, duration of CR + CRh + Cri, Up to approximately 33 months|Transfusion-dependence conversion ratio, Up to approximately 33 months|HSCT(hematopoietic stem cell transplantation) ratio, Up to approximately 33 months|Safety（TEAE, TRAE, SAE, etc.）, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events, treatment-emergent adverse events, serious adverse events, adverse events leading to dose modification, adverse events leading to death as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Up to approximately 33 months|Quality of life (QoL), Quality of life (QoL), as measured by Family Reported Outcome Measure (Form-Item Health Survey), Up to approximately 33 months|Time to response (TTR), Time to first CR (TTCR), time to first CR + CRh \[TT (CR + CRh)\], time to first CR + CRh + CRi \[TT (CR + CRi + CRh)\], Up to approximately 33 months|EFS, Event-free survival (EFS), Up to approximately 33 months
Study overview This is a multicenter, randomized, open-label phase III clinical study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetic (PK) of HMPL-306 vs. salvage chemotherapy in patients with IDH1- and IDH2-mutated R/R AML.

An open-label design is adopted in this study. All patients will first undergo pre-screening to determine the mutation status of IDH, and all patients will be assigned to the registry study of the corresponding cohorts of IDH1 and IDH2 based on the pre-screening results. Patients with both IDH1 and IDH2 mutations will be enrolled in the IDH2 cohort. This study is divided into two cohorts. Cohort 1 includes R/R AML patients with IDH1-R132 mutations; Cohort 2 includes R/R AML patients with IDH2-R140 and R172 mutations. The two cohorts are designed independently and will be analyzed separately for statistical hypothesis testing. Patients in both cohorts will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio according to the central Interactive Web Response System (IWRS) into the test or control group, patients in the test group will receive HMPL-306 monotherapy at a dose of 250 mg once daily (QD) (Cycle 1, C1) + 150 mg QD \[starting from Cycle 2 (C2)\]. Patients in the control group will receive salvage chemotherapy (one of four options) consisting of two intensive chemotherapy regimens (MEC regimen and FLAG ± Ida regimen) and two non-intensive chemotherapy regimens (azacitidine and LoDAC). Before randomization, the investigator will preselect a salvage chemotherapy regimen based on the patient's condition. Patients will then be stratified and randomized based on their prior first-line treatment response (recurrence within 6 months after allogeneic Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), recurrence beyond 6 months after allogeneic HSCT, primary refractory disease without HSCT, recurrence within 6 months after achieving CR/CRh without HSCT, recurrence beyond 6 months after achieving complete response (CR)/CR with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) without HSCT) and the intensity of preselected chemotherapy regimen (intensive chemotherapy, non-intensive chemotherapy).

After the patient signs the pre-screening informed consent form (ICF), pre-screening (genetic testing) will be performed to determine the mutation status of IDH, so as to clarify the subsequent enrollment of the cohorts. Patients who meet the inclusion criteria will receive treatment in the test group or the control group. Each treatment cycle lasts for 28 days. Treatment will continue until progression of disease (PD)/recurrence, death, intolerable toxicity, initiation of a new anti-tumor therapy, the patient no longer benefits from the treatment as judged by the investigator, the patient or his/her legal representative requests to withdraw from the study, loss to follow-up, or end of study, whichever occurs first (the treatment cycle of MEC regimen and FLAG ± Ida regimen in the chemotherapy group will be adjusted based on the actual dosing, and a maximum of two treatment cycles is allowed).

Patients with PD in the control group should not be crossed over to the test group, and patients in the control group should not be crossed over to other salvage treatment regimens.

The information of treatment groups is as follows (consistent between the two cohorts):

* Test group: Patients will receive HMPL-306 monotherapy:

  - HMPL-306 PO at 250 mg QD (C1) + 150 mg QD (starting from C2), 28 days as a cycle.
* Control group: Patients will receive treatment with one of the following regimens, and the regimen will be selected by the investigator based on the patient's condition:

  * MEC regimen: etoposide injection 100 mg/m2, cytarabine injection 1000 mg/m2, mitoxantrone injection 8 mg/m2 QD IV for 5 consecutive days (Days 1-5).
  * FLAG ± Ida regimen: granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) injection 300 mcg/m2 QD subcutaneous injection（SC） for 5 consecutive days (Days 1-5); fludarabine injection 30 mg/m2 QD IV for 5 consecutive days (Days 2-6); cytarabine injection 2000 mg/m2 QD IV for 5 consecutive days (Days 2-6); idarubicin injection 10 mg/m2 QD IV for 3 consecutive days (Days 2-4). This regimen can be given with or without Ida, which will be determined by the investigator based on the actual condition of the patient. After the completion of chemotherapy, the investigator will determine whether it is necessary to continue G-CSF administration. If necessary, G-CSF may be administered again until absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \> 0.5 × 109/L.
  * LoDAC: cytarabine injection 20 mg q12h SC or IV for 10 consecutive days (Days 1-10).
  * Azacitidine: azacitidine injection 75 mg/m2 QD SC or IV for 7 consecutive days (Days 1-7).

Phase of study:

The study phase includes a pre-screening period, a screening period, a treatment period, and a follow-up period \[including end-of-treatment (EOT) follow-up, EFS follow-up, and OS follow-up\].

Pre-screening period: The pre-screening period is defined as the period from signing the pre-screening ICF to obtaining test reports on IDH1 and IDH2 mutations. For patients without a previous report of IDH1 or IDH2 testing, specimens can be sent to the central laboratory for IDH1 and IDH2 mutation and other concomitant gene testing before screening and after signing the pre-screening ICF. Patients previously reported to be positive for IDH1/IDH2 mutation test can enter the screening period directly without pre-screening, if permitted by the investigator. Patients should not be enrolled until the test results are confirmed by the central laboratory.

The screening period is defined as the time from signing the main screening ICF until pre-dose on C1D1.

The treatment period is defined as the time from the first dose to EOT. EOT visit: Patients at EOT are required to return to the study site for an EOT follow-up visit within 30 (±7) days after the last dose of investigational product or before starting any other anti-tumor therapy, whichever occurs first.

EFS follow-up: Patients at EOT (except for PD/recurrence and lack of efficacy) will be retained in the study and enter the EFS follow-up stage. EFS follow-up will be conducted every 8 weeks from the day of entering the EFS follow-up stage until progression of disease/recurrence, death, withdrawal by the patient or his/her legal representative, loss to follow-up, or end of study (whichever occurs first). Subsequent new transplant conditioning regimens or new anti-tumor regimens should be recorded during the EFS follow-up period. \[According to the "Guidelines for Clinical Development of New Drugs for Acute Myeloid Leukemia" issued by the Center for Drug Evaluation (CDE), "lack of efficacy" is defined as failure to achieve CR or CRh/CR with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi)/morphological leukemia-free status (MLFS)/partial response (PR) after 2 cycles of treatment under the protocol of the intensive chemotherapy group. In the reduced intensity chemotherapy group, if CR or CRh/CRi/MLFS/PR is not achieved after 180 days of treatment, it will be judged as lack of efficacy. "Lack of efficacy" in the test group is defined as failure to achieve CR or CRh/CRi/MLFS/PR from the day of HMPL-306 treatment until C5D1 (including C5D1 visit). Whether patients are considered "lack of efficacy" during the study will be determined by the investigator based on the actual clinical condition. For patients who are deemed as having experienced an event-free survival (EFS) event due to meeting the definition of "lack of efficacy" among EFS events, but who could still potentially benefit from continued treatment as judged by the investigator, they may continue to receive treatment after being fully informed (without changing the conclusion that an EFS event has occurred)\].

OS follow-up: After the end of EFS follow-up, patients will enter the overall survival (OS) follow-up stage. OS follow-ups will be conducted every 8 weeks from the day of OS follow-up until death, request for withdrawal from the study by the patient or her/his legal representative, loss to follow-up, or end of study (whichever occurs first).

End of study The two cohorts may vary in the time of end of study. The end of study for each cohort is defined as the number of target OS events for which the final analysis is observed in that cohort. The actual study duration for each cohort depends on the actual enrollment rate, dropout rate, and median OS of each group.

Efficacy assessment Efficacy assessment will be based on the European Leukemia Collaboration (ELN) 2022 criteria. Efficacy assessment will be conducted once every cycle during the first 6 treatment cycles (i.e., C2D1, C3D1, C4D1, C5D1, C6D1, and C7D1) and once every 2 cycles thereafter (i.e., C9D1, C11D1, C13D1,... ); efficacy evaluation will also be conducted at EOT follow-up and at each EFS follow-up.

Safety assessment All adverse events (AEs) will be graded as per the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), V5.0. AEs will be coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). The number and frequency of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) will be summarized by system organ class (SOC) and preferred term (PT).

In this study, all serious adverse events (SAEs) related to study procedures reported from the date of signing the informed consent form for pre-screening to the date of signing the master informed consent form will be collected; all SAEs need to be collected from the date of signing the master informed consent form to the date of the first dose; all AE/SAEs need to be collected from the first dose to 30 days after the last dose or the initiation of a new anti-tumor therapy, whichever occurs first; SAEs confirmed by investigators as having a reasonable possibility of correlation with the investigational product need to be collected 30 days after the last dose or after the initiation of a new anti-tumor therapy, whichever occurs earliest.