LUX-Head&Neck 2: A Phase III Trial of Afatinib (BIBW 2992) Versus Placebo for the Treatment of Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer After Treatment With Chemo-radiotherapy
This randomised, double-blind phase III trial will be performed in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). The objectives of the trial are to compare the efficacy and safety of afatinib (BIBW 2992) with placebo as adjuvant therapy to patients who have received definitive chemo-radiotherapy.
Head and Neck Neoplasms
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Afatinib
Disease Free Survival (DFS), Disease Free Survival defined as the time from randomisation until documented tumour recurrence/ second primary tumour (SPT) or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., Up to 5 years
Disease Free Survival (DFS) Rate at 2 Years, Disease Free Survival (DFS) rate at 2 years. Probability of being disease free at 2 years in percentage is provided based on Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Percentage of Patient Deaths (Overall Survival (OS)), Overall survival (OS), defined as the time from randomisation until death (regardless of cause). Due to the small event rate in both treatment arms caused by the early termination of the trial, the hazard estimate is not interpretable. Hence presented the total randomized and the percentage of patients died., Up to 5 years|Patients With Improved Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL), HRQoL questionnaires focused on 3 scales: Pain scale from H\&N35, Swallowing scale from H\&N35 and Global health status/QoL scale from C30. Improvement was defined as a score that improved from baseline by at least 10 points (on the 0-100 point scale) at any time during the study. If a patient had not improved, worsening was defined as a 10-point worsening at any time during the study. Patients who had neither improved nor worsened were considered as stable. Percentages of patients with improvement in HRQoL are presented., Up to 5 years|Time to Deterioration in Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL), HRQoL questionnaires focused on 3 scales: Pain scale from H\&N35, Swallowing scale from H\&N35 and Global health status/QoL scale from C30. Time to deterioration was defined as the time from randomisation to the first 10-point worsening on the 0-100 point scale. Patients with no deterioration (including those with disease recurrence/SPT) were censored at the last available HRQoL assessment date. Patients with no post-baseline assessments were censored on the day of randomisation., Up to 5 years|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) Scores Over Time, HRQoL questionnaires focused on 3 scales: Pain scale from H\&N35, Swallowing scale from H\&N35 and Global health status/QoL scale from C30. Scoring of the symptom scales/items followed the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) scoring manual and a linear transformation of the scores to a 0-100 point scale. Higher values are better., Baseline and 5 years
This randomised, double-blind phase III trial will be performed in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). The objectives of the trial are to compare the efficacy and safety of afatinib (BIBW 2992) with placebo as adjuvant therapy to patients who have received definitive chemo-radiotherapy.