A Phase II Pediatric Study of a Graft-VS.-Host Disease (GVHD) Prophylaxis Regimen With no Calcineurin Inhibitors After Day +60 Post First Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplant for Hematological Malignancies
The participants are being asked to take part in this clinical trial because the participant have a lymphoid or myeloid based cancer diagnosis that requires a bone marrow transplant.

Primary Objectives

To estimate the incidence of severe acute GVHD (saGVHD) using a prophylaxis regimen with no calcineurin inhibitors after day +60 post first allogeneic Human Leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched sibling or unrelated donor HCT for hematological malignancies.

Secondary objective

Determine the cumulative incidence of relapse, NRM, chronic GVHD, and OS in study participants at one year post-transplant.

Exploratory objectives

* To evaluate the pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) profiles of ruxolitinib, fludarabine, and rATG.
* To assess immune reconstitution in study participants within the first year post-HCT.
Hematologic Malignancy|Myeloid Malignancy
DRUG: Ruxolitinib|DRUG: Mesna|DRUG: Anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG)|DRUG: Cyclosporine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Methotrexate|RADIATION: Total Body Irradiation (radiation treatment)|DRUG: Bone marrow infusion|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Thiotepa
Proportion of severe acute GVHD (saGVHD) using a prophylaxis regimen with no calcineurin inhibitors after day 100 post first allogeneic Human Leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched sibling or unrelated donor HCT for hematological malignancies., Development of saGVHD at or before Day 100 post transplant is considered as an event., 100 days post transplant
Incidence of Leukemic Relapse, Bone marrow studies for disease status evaluation will be performed., One-year post-transplantation.|Non-relapse mortality, The one-year non-relapse mortality (NRM is defined by the patient who expire while in remission within one year. The probability of NRM is estimated by the cumulative incidence method., One-year post-transplantation|Overall Survival, The one-year survival is defined by the patient who has not died within one year after post transplantation. The probability is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., one year post-transplantation|Incidence of Chronic Graft Versus Host Disease (cGVHD), Ongoing assessment of toxicity will be done using the NCI CTCAE version 3.0. Acute and chronic graft-vs.-host disease will be evaluated using the standard grading criteria. The cumulative incidence of cGvHD will be estimated using Kalbfleisch-Prentice method., 1 year post transplant
The investigator propose to employ two preparative regimens based on the underlying hematological malignancy. For hematological malignancies of the lymphoid lineage we will use a standard preparative regimen consisting of Total Body Irradiation and cyclophosphamide (TBI/Cy), unless TBI is contraindicated. For myeloid malignancies we will use thiotepa, busulfan, and fludarabine (TBF), a preparative regimen that has been associated with a reduced risk of relapse and trend for improved survival with comparable NRM in comparison to busulfan and cyclophosphamide (BuCy), our current regimen. All HCT recipients will receive cyclosporine in combination with methotrexate and ruxolitinib as GVHD prophylaxis. Recipients of MUD HCT will receive rATG for additional immunosuppression as is standard for unrelated donor transplants