Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer and Kidney Failure
Phase I trial to determine the dose of imatinib mesylate that is most effective with the least amount of toxic side effects in treating patients who have advanced cancer and kidney failure. Imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of cancer cells by stopping the enzyme necessary for cancer cell growth. Kidney failure may delay the elimination of imatinib mesylate from the body, which may lead to longer drug exposure and increase toxic side effects
Malignant Neoplasm|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: imatinib mesylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of imatinib mesylate, based on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) v2.0, Toxicities will be tabulated and summarized by organ systems., Up to 4 weeks
Estimates of incidences of adverse events and dose limiting toxicity (DLT), based on the NCI CTC v2.0, Up to 7 years|Pharmacokinetic parameters, Up to day 16|Response rates based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Estimated along with confidence intervals based on exact binomial probabilities., Up to 7 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of STI571 for cohorts of patients with varying degrees of renal dysfunction (normal, mild, moderate, and severe).

II. To determine the effects of renal dysfunction on the plasma pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of STI571.

III. To evaluate the safety of STI571 in patients with various degrees of renal dysfunction.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according to creatinine clearance (at least 60 mL/min vs 40-59 mL/min vs 20-39 mL/min vs less than 20 mL/min vs any creatinine clearance and undergoing dialysis).

Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate once or twice daily on days 1 and 4-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients in each stratum receive escalating doses of imatinib mesylate until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 60-69 patients (about 12 per stratum) will be accrued for this study.