Alternate Doses and Dosing Schedules of Belantamab Mafodotin for Treatment of Triple-Class Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial tests alternate doses and dosing schedules of belantamab mafodotin in treating patients with triple-class multiple myeloma that has come back (after a period of improvement) (recurrent) and/or does not respond to treatment (or that has not responded to previous treatment) (refractory). Belantamab mafodotin is a monoclonal antibody, belantamab, linked to a chemotherapy drug, mafodotin. Belantamab is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as BCMA receptors, and delivers mafodotin to kill them. This trial may help researchers determine if alternate doses and dosing schedules work better in preventing certain side effects, such as eye toxicity, and treating patients with recurrent or refractory multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Multiple Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Belantamab Mafodotin|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspirate|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Grade 3/4 keratopathy-free rate, The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes (proportion of patients free of grade 3/4 keratopathy at the time of dose #4) divided by the total number of evaluable patients. 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner. If both arms prove to meet the primary endpoint, they will be evaluated indirectly in relation to each other similar, to a Bayesian pick the winner, approach if only one can be brought forward for further testing, At the time of dose 4
Overall response rate, Will be estimated by the total number of patients who achieve a complete response (CR), very good partial response, or partial response divided by the total number of evaluable patients. All evaluable patients will be used for this analysis. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), The maximum grade for each type of AE will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the AEs to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 5 years|Time to progression, The distribution of time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or relapse or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), The distribution of OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity rate, Will be estimated by dividing the total number of patients who achieve MRD negativity if a bone marrow biopsy is done for suspected CR over the total number of evaluable patients. All evaluable patients will be used for this analysis. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the grade 3/4 keratopathy-free rate at the time of dose #4 of an alternative dose/dosing schedule of belantamab mafodotin in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the overall response rate (ORR; partial response or better) of an alternative dose/dosing schedule of belantamab mafodotin in patients with RRMM.

II. To assess the safety of an alternative dose/dosing schedule of belantamab mafodotin in patients with RRMM.

III. To assess the time to progression (TTP) of an alternative dose/dosing schedule of belantamab mafodotin in patients with RRMM.

IV. To assess the progression free survival (PFS) with an alternative dose/dosing schedule of belantamab mafodotin in patients with RRMM.

V. To assess the overall survival (OS) with an alternative dose/dosing schedule of belantamab mafodotin in patients with RRMM.

VI. To assess the minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity rate in patients who have achieved a complete response (CR) with an alternative dose/dosing schedule of belantamab mafodotin.

CORRELATIVE AND PHARMACODYNAMIC RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the association of pre-treatment serum BCMA levels as well as serum BCMA levels throughout treatment with ORR and PFS to an alternative treatment schedule of belantamab mafodotin.

II. To assess the pharmacokinetics of this alternative dose/dosing schedule of belantamab mafodotin.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive low dose belantamab mafodotin intravenously (IV) on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients undergo a computed tomography (CT) scan, a magnetic resonance image (MRI) scan, or a positron emission tomography (PET)/CT scan during screening and patients with plasmacytoma (a multiple myeloma \[MM\] tumor in bone or soft tissue) also undergo imaging scans on study. Patients undergo bone marrow aspirate and biopsy during screening and on study as well as collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

GROUP II: Patients receive belantamab mafodotin IV on day 1. Cycle repeats at 3 weeks for the next cycle and then every 6 weeks for subsequent cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. All patients undergo a CT scan, a MRI scan, or a PET/CT scan during screening and patients with plasmacytoma (a MM tumor in bone or soft tissue) also undergo imaging scans on study. Patients undergo bone marrow aspirate and biopsy during screening and on study as well as collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

After completion of trial treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 5 years.