Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage I Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Stereotactic body radiation therapy may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of stereotactic body radiation therapy and to see how well it works in treating patients with stage I non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
RADIATION: SBRT 40.0 Gy|RADIATION: SBRT 42.5 Gy|RADIATION: SBRT 45.0 Gy|RADIATION: SBRT 47.5 Gy|RADIATION: SBRT 50.0 Gy|RADIATION: SBRT 52.5 Gy|RADIATION: SBRT 55.0 Gy|RADIATION: SBRT 57.5 Gy|RADIATION: SBRT 60.0 Gy
(Phase I) Maximum Tolerated Dose of Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) as Assessed by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE) v4.0, Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) defined as dose most closely associated with a 20% probability of experiencing a toxicity \<= 1 year from start of SBRT from following dose-limiting toxicities: Gr 3-5 Cardiac: Pericardial effusion, Pericarditis, Restrictive cardiomyopathy; Gr 4-5 GI: Dysphagia, Esophagitis, Esophageal fistula/obstruction/perforation/stenosis/ulcer/hemorrhage; Gr 3-5 Nervous System Disorders: Brachial plexopathy, Recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy, Myelitis; Gr 3-5 Respiratory: Atelectasis (gr 4-5 only), Bronchopulmonary/mediastinal/pleural/tracheal hemorrhage, Bronchial/pulmonary/bronchopleural/tracheal fistula, Hypoxia (provided gr 3 is worse than baseline), Bronchial/tracheal obstruction, Pleural effusion, Pneumonitis, Pulmonary fibrosis; Changes in Pulmonary Function Tests per SBRT Pulmonary Toxicity Scale, Gr 3-5: FEV1 decline, FVC decline; Any Gr 5 adverse event attributed to treatment. Dose level was determined by time-to-event continual reassessment method (TITE-CRM)., From start of SBRT to 1 year|(Phase II) Primary Tumor Control Rate at the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Primary tumor control is defined as the absence of primary tumor failure. Primary tumor failure (PTF) refers to the primary treated tumor after protocol therapy and corresponds to meeting following two criteria: 1) Increase in tumor dimension of 20% as defined above for local enlargement (LE); 2) The measurable tumor with criteria meeting LE should be avid on Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging with uptake of a similar intensity as the pretreatment staging PET, OR the measurable tumor should be biopsied confirming viable carcinoma. Marginal Failures (MF) and Involved Lobe Failures were also counted as PTF. The cumulative incidence method was used to estimate primary tumor control rate. The 90% confidence interval for local control was calculated using bootstrapping methods. Per the protocol, only the MTD dose level was to be analyzed. However, due to the quantity of patients enrolled on Dose Level 8 as well as safety concerns, Dose Level 8 was analyzed also., From start of SBRT to 2 years.
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the state of being alive without progression of disease. A failure is the first of the following: local progression, regional progression, distant metastasis, or death. Progression-free survival was assessed at the maximum tolerated dose using the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate the 2-year survival rate. Arms were not compared/tested., From randomization to date of death, failure (local, regional or distant) or last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 24 months, approximately 7.5 years from the start of the study.|Overall Survival, An event for overall survival is death due to any cause. Overall survival was assessed at the maximum tolerated dose using the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate the 2-year survival rate. Arms were not compared/tested., From randomization to date of death or last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 24 months, approximately 7.5 years from the start of the study.|Local Progression, Local progression is the same as primary tumor failure (PTF) which refers to the primary treated tumor after protocol therapy and corresponds to meeting both of the following two criteria: 1) Increase in tumor dimension of 20% as defined above for local enlargement (LE); 2) The measurable tumor with criteria meeting LE should be avid on Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging with uptake of a similar intensity as the pretreatment staging PET, OR the measurable tumor should be biopsied confirming viable carcinoma. For outcome analysis, Marginal Failures (MF) and Involved Lobe Failures will also be counted as PTF. Local progression was assessed using the cumulative incidence method to estimate the 2-year failure rate. Arms were not compared/tested., From randomization to date of death, regional failure or last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 24 months.|Nodal Progression, Regional nodal progression is defined as appearance after protocol therapy of measurable tumor within lymph nodes along the natural lymphatic drainage typical for the location of the treated primary disease only with dimension of at least 1.0 cm on imaging studies (preferably CT scans) within the lung, bronchial hilum, or the mediastinum. Regional nodal progression was assessed using the cumulative incidence method to estimate the 2-year failure rate. Arms were not compared/tested., From randomization to date of death, regional failure or last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 24 months, approximately 7.5 years from the start of the study.|Distant Metastases, Distant metastases is defined as the appearance after protocol therapy of cancer deposits characteristic of metastatic dissemination from non-small cell lung cancer. Distant metastases progression was assessed using the cumulative incidence method to estimate the 2-year failure rate. Arms were not compared/tested., From randomization to date of death, distant failure or last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 24 months, approximately 7.5 years from the start of the study.|Rate of Toxicity ≥ Grade 3 (Other Than DLT) Within One Year as Assessed by NCI CTCAE v4.0, Rate of patients developing any treatment-related toxicity during the first year following the start of SBRT that is not among the types considered as a dose-limiting toxicity., From start of SBRT until 1 year.|Rate of Late Toxicity (i.e., Occurs > 1 Year After the Start of SBRT) of ≥ Grade 3 as Assessed by NCI CTCAE v4.0, Percentage of patients who developed any treatment-related toxicity after the first year following the start of SBRT., From start of treatment to end of follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 24 months, approximately 7.5 years from the start of the study.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) in medically inoperable patients with centrally located stage I non-small cell lung cancer. (Phase I)
* To estimate the local control rate of SBRT at the MTD in these patients. (Phase II)

Secondary

* To estimate the rates of adverse events (other than dose-limiting toxicity) of ≥ grade 3 that is possibly, probably, or definitely related to treatment and that occurs within 1 year after the start of SBRT in these patients.
* To estimate the rates of late adverse events (i.e., occurs \> 1 year after the start of SBRT) in these patients.
* To estimate the local control and progression-free and overall survival rates in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo stereotactic body radiotherapy every 2 days over 1½-2 weeks \[total of 5 fractions (FX)\] in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years, then annually.