Effect of Subcutaneous Polyvidone Collagen Treatment on Hand Recovery in Adult Rheumatoid Arthritis.
A study in geriatric rheumatology on the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in older adults is described. Its objective is to compare the effects of subcutaneous polyvidone collagen versus placebo, analyzing clinical improvement, biochemical response and quality of life in people over 60 years of age.

The Phase IV, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial will be conducted between 2023 and 2026. Sixty patients with early-stage arthritis will participate, assessing factors such as pain, functionality and synovitis with various statistical tools and analyses.
Arthritis, Rheumatoid
DRUG: Subcutaneous polyvidone collagen|OTHER: saline solution
Effect of subcutaneous polyvidone collagen treatment on clinical hand recovery in adults with rheumatoid arthritis using the modified Kapandji Index, pain scale, and hand pressure strength., The clinical recovery of the hand in adults with rheumatoid arthritis will be evaluated by means of a modified Kapandji index, which consists of a test that allows evaluating the result of three different functions of the hand; the pain scale, where the patient is asked to observe the pain he/she feels and quantify it from 0 to 10, 0 being no pain and 10 being maximum pain; and the manual pressure force (MPF) where a maximum grip force is applied for a time of 3 seconds, with a rest of 1 minute between each repetition, making two attempts, measuring both times to obtain the best value., Every 15 days for 2 months
Effect of subcutaneous polyvidone collagen treatment in quality of life in adult rheumatoid arthritis, Quality of life will be assessed through the short SF-36 questionnaire. Applied at the time of the interview with each of the participants before and after the intervention in both groups., 2 months
Geriatric rheumatology specializes in the study of rheumatic diseases in older adults, who have immune and physiological characteristics that influence the manifestation of these diseases. In the case of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a chronic inflammatory disease that affects the joints, treatments that improve functionality and reduce pain in the hands, evaluated by ultrasound, are studied.

Its objective is to compare the effects of treatment with subcutaneous polyvidone collagen versus placebo on clinical improvement of the hands, biochemical response and quality of life in people over 60 years of age with rheumatoid arthritis.

A Phase IV, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial will be conducted between August 2023 and August 2026. Sixty patients (30 in each group) with early-stage arthritis will participate. Pain, functionality, synovitis, and quality of life will be assessed using various scales, biochemical analyses, and statistical tests.