Induction and Maintenance Treatment With PARP Inhibitor and Immunotherapy in HPV-negative HNSCC
We propose a window of opportunity trial to evaluate safety and efficacy of a short course of the study combination, composed by an Anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody (Dostarlimab (TSR-042)) and a PARPi (Niraparib). The study population will be surgically resectable, HPV-negative (defined by p16 negative status) locally advanced HNSCC.

Maintenance treatment will be then delivered, so to better integrate the therapeutic benefits of this drug combination.

Response to neoadjuvant treatment will be evaluated by the rate of major pathologic response, morphologic, and functional imaging (MRI with functional evaluation -DWI).

We anticipate that neoadjuvant and maintenance PARPi plus immunotherapy treatment could lead to a reduction of loco-regional recurrence (LRR) and distant metastasis (DM) rates in such a high-risk population.

Furthermore, the window of opportunity portion of this trial will allow in vivo acquisition of valuable knowledge on mechanisms of action and primary resistance to Anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody and PARPi in HNSCC. In this phase of the study, biological specimens will be collected (pre-treatment tumor biopsy, tissues from the surgical specimen, liquid biopsy, blood and saliva samples) as well as functional imaging (MRI).
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Niraparib
Rate of Major Pathological Response (Treatment Activity), Rate of Major Pathological Response (MPR, i.e. less than 10% viable tumor cells identified on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining in pathological surgical specimen) in patients with locally advanced HNSCC treated with Niraparib + Dostarlimab (TSR-042) in the WoO setting, Day 0, at surgery|Incidence of grade 3-5 toxicities (Treatment Safety), Safety stopping rule: the first 6 patients will be evaluated for surgical toxicities graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v 5.0 and documented over the 4 weeks period following surgery in order to determine if preoperative study protocol is safe. Once the safety is established total planned enrolment will be completed.

Surgical safety in the whole population will be evaluated up to 4 weeks after surgery considering the following:

1. postoperative bleeding requiring surgical revision
2. delayed wound healing or wound dehiscence
3. wound infection
4. fistula
5. need for secondary surgical interventions (not considered part of institutional standard of care)
6. skin loss/flap necrosis including partial or total flap as applicable. Then, the safety of the entire treatment in terms of rate of grade \>3 adverse events, or hospitalization, or extension of the hospitalization due to complications will be assessed., 12 months
Radiological Response, Radiological response after 6 weeks of treatment evaluated at MRI prior to surgery by:

1. RECIST v1.1 using conventional MRI imaging
2. Diffusion Weighted Imaging Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DWI MRI), 6 weeks of treatment|Progression free survival, Progression free survival, At the end of the treatment phase every 3 months for the first year and every 4 months for the second year|Radiological and pathological response, Correlation between radiological and pathological response, At the end of the treatment phase every 3 months for the first year and every 4 months for the second year|Genomic expression, Correlation of predictive role of baseline genomic expression, immune infiltrate, PD-L1 evaluation (by CPS) and radiomic characteristics with regard to response to induction therapy and DFS, At baseline and at surgery on day 0
The entire patient population will receive the following treatment:

* Niraparib 200 mg/day: day -49 to day -21;
* Dostarlimab 500 mg iv: day -49 and day -28; At day -21, clinical evaluation will be performed and the patient will be directed to surgery with exclusion from the study in case of progressive disease. Radiological assessment will be performed according to the physician's judgement.

If no clinical evidence of disease progression, the following schedule will be carried out:

* Niraparib 200 mg/day day -21 to day -7
* Dostarlimab 500 mg iv: day -7
* Clinical and radiological evaluation with Diffusion Weighted Imaging Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DWI MRI) of the disease at day -1 (± 3 days);
* Surgery (original margin) day 0 (± 3 days, within 72 hours from radiological assessment); Following surgery, patients included in the study will undergo standard postoperative (chemo)radiotherapy according to pathologic report.

Furthermore, the following schedule will be carried out, in a period comprised between 2 and 6 weeks after the end of radiation therapy:

* Maintenance Niraparib, 200 mg/day for 6 months
* Maintenance Dostarlimab, 500 mg iv q3W for the first four cycles and 1000 mg iv Q6W thereafter for 3 months.

Before starting this adjuvant treatment phase, inclusion and exclusion criteria of the protocol should be re-assessed and every patient should meet these criteria.

Then the patient will start the follow up period, consisting in clinical visits every 3 months for the first year and every 4 months for the second year, then every year. After this period, the patient will be followed according to clinical practice in each site.

In each follow up, clinical evaluation with fiberendoscopic assessment will be carried out; moreover, radiological imaging with MRI will be performed every other visit. CT scan of abdomen and thorax or PET/CT will be requested at 12 and 24 months after treatment end. In any case, radiological exams will be requested in case of any doubts of recurrence or late toxicity.