Study of a Drug [DCVax®-L] to Treat Newly Diagnosed GBM Brain Cancer
The primary purpose of the study is to determine the efficacy of an investigational therapy called DCVax(R)-L in patients with newly diagnosed GBM for whom surgery is indicated. Patients must enter screening at a participating site prior to surgical resection of the tumor. Patients will receive the standard of care, including radiation and Temodar therapy and two out of three will additionally receive DCVax-L, with the remaining one third receiving a placebo. All patients will have the option to receive DCVax-L in a crossover arm upon documented disease progression. (note: DCVax-L when used for patients with brain cancer is sometimes also referred to as DCVax-Brain)
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Glioblastoma|GBM|Grade IV Astrocytoma|Glioma|Brain Cancer|Brain Tumor
DRUG: Dendritic cell immunotherapy
The primary objective of this study is to compare overall survival (OS) between patients randomized to DCVax-L and control patients from comparable, contemporaneous trials who received standard of care therapy only, in newly diagnosed glioblastoma., Until death
The first secondary objective is to compare overall survival (OS) between patients randomized to placebo who received DCVax-L treatment following disease recurrence, and control patients from comparable, contemporaneous clinical trials, in recurrent GBM., Until death
This Phase III trial is designed to evaluate the impact on survival time, as well as safety, in patients following treatment with DCVax(R)-L, an immunotherapy treatment for GBM. The experimental therapy uses a patient's own tumor lysate and white blood cells from which precursors of the dendritic cells are isolated. The dendritic cell is the starter engine of the immune system. The white cells are then made into dendritic cells and they are educated to "teach" the immune system how to recognize brain cancer cells. Eligible patients will receive a series of injections of DCVax-L, to activate and then boost the immune response to the tumor cells.

The primary study endpoint is OS (overall survival) compared to external controls in newly diagnosed glioblastoma, and the first secondary endpoint is OS compared to external controls in recurrent glioblastoma.

Side effects reported from early trials are mostly mild, and may include skin reactions of redness, pain \& swelling at the injection site.