A Study of Irinotecan Plus Cetuximab With or Without Enzastaurin in Participants With Colorectal Cancer
To see how well enzastaurin in combination with irinotecan and cetuximab works versus irinotecan and cetuximab in participants who have progressed within 3 months.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Carcinoma|Colorectal Tumor
DRUG: enzastaurin|DRUG: irinotecan|DRUG: cetuximab
Percentage of Participants With Progression-Free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months (PFS Rate), PFS was defined as the time from the date of study enrollment to the first date of progressive disease or death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of the data cut-off date and who did not have progressive disease, PFS was censored at the date of last visit with adequate assessment. For participants who received subsequent anticancer therapy (after discontinuation from the study treatment) prior to disease progression or death, PFS was censored at the date of last visit with adequate assessment prior to the initiation of post-discontinuation anticancer therapy. The PFS probability values were multiplied by 100 to obtain the percentage values., At 6 months from randomization
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (Tumor Response Rate), Tumor response rate was defined as number of participants with overall best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) over number of protocol qualified participants using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.0) Guidelines. CR was defined as the disappearance of all tumor lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LDs or complete disappearance of target lesions, with persistence (but not worsening) of 1 or more non-target lesions, with no new lesions appearing. Percentage of participants = (Number of participants with overall best response of CR or PR/Number of protocol qualified participants) x 100., Baseline to measured progressive disease up to 13.2 months|Duration of Response, The duration of a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of disease progression or death from any cause. According to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.0) criteria, CR was defined as the disappearance of all tumor lesions and PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LDs or complete disappearance of target lesions, with persistence (but not worsening) of 1 or more non-target lesions, with no new lesions appearing. For participants who died, the duration of response was censored at death. For participants still alive, duration of response was censored at the last visit with adequate assessment., Time of response to progressive disease up to 13.2 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time in months from the date of study enrollment to the date of death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of the cut-off date, OS was censored at the last contact date., Randomization to date of death from any cause up to 21.9 months|Percentage of Participants With a Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) (Disease Control Rate), The overall disease control rate for each treatment arm was calculated as percent of participants with overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) over number of protocol qualified population. According to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.0) criteria, CR was defined as the disappearance of all tumor lesions, PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, progressive disease (PD) was defined as at least 20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions, and SD was defined as small changes that did not meet above criteria.

Percentage of participants = (Number of participants with overall best response of CR, PR, or SD/Number of protocol qualified participants) x 100., Baseline to disease progression (up to 13.2 months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) or Who Died, Clinically significant events were defined as serious and other non-serious AEs. Participants who died due to progressive disease (PD) or and adverse events (AEs) while on treatment and or died during the 30 day post-treatment are included. A summary of serious and other non-serious adverse events regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., Baseline to study completion (Cycle 31.5 [21 days/cycle] and 30-day safety follow-up)
To see how well enzastaurin in combination with irinotecan and cetuximab works versus irinotecan and cetuximab in participants who have progressed within 3 months.