Lenalidomide and Obinutuzumab in Treating Patients With Relapsed Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with obinutuzumab and how well this combination works in treating patients with low-grade non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that has returned after a period of improvement (relapsed). Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may attack specific cancer cells and stop them from growing or kill them. Obinutuzumab is a form of targeted therapy because it attaches itself to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of cancer cells, known as CD20 receptors. When obinutuzumab attaches to CD20 receptors, the signals that tell the cells to grow are blocked and the cancer cell may be marked for destruction by the body's immune system. Giving lenalidomide and obinutuzumab together may work better in treating NHL.
Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab
Maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide when given with obinutuzumab defined as the highest dose level in which 6 patients have been treated with less than 2 instances of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) (Phase I), Will be assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4. Toxicity type and severity by dose level will be summarized using frequency tables., 28 days|Incidence of DLTs after course 1 assessed using NCI CTCAE version 4 (Phase II), Toxicity type and severity will be summarized for each patient cohort using frequency tables., After 28 days (1 course)|Overall response rate (complete response + partial response) (Phase II), The overall response rate for each patient cohort will be calculated and the Clopper Pearson confidence interval will be provided. Chi square test or Fisher's exact test will be used to evaluate the association between patient prognostic factor and response., After 168 days (6 courses)
Overall survival, The distribution of time-to-event endpoints will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test., Up to 4 years|Progression-free survival, The distribution of time-to-event endpoints will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparison of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank test., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide plus obinutuzumab in relapsed/refractory indolent lymphoma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the safety of lenalidomide in combination with obinutuzumab in patients with relapsed/refractory indolent lymphoma. (Phase II) III. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of the combination in patients with relapsed/refractory indolent lymphoma. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete response rate, time to progression (TTP), and progression free survival in patients with indolent lymphoma following treatment with obinutuzumab + lenalidomide.

II. To evaluate changes in immune effector cells and the tumor microenvironment following treatment with obinutuzumab + lenalidomide.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 2-22 and obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) over 4-5 hours on days 1, 2, 8, 15, and 22 of cycle 1 and on day 1 of each subsequent cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients not experiencing progression and who in the opinion of treating physician are deriving benefit from combination treatment may continue lenalidomide for an additional 6 cycles (up to cycle 12) and obinutuzumab on day 1 every 2 months for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 1 year, and then yearly thereafter.