Pazopanib Paediatric Phase II Trial Children's Oncology Group (COG) in Solid Tumors
The study design was an open-label Phase II pediatric clinical study. The purpose of Study X2203 was to identify any efficacy signal in subjects with the disease subtypes under study, when treated with pazopanib monotherapy. Furthermore, it was to define the toxicities of pazopanib in children, as well as examine biological markers, e.g. cytokines and angiogenic factors, that could help further characterize any response of pazopanib in children. Pazopanib was administered as monotherapy in tablet and powder suspension formulations at daily doses of 450 mg/m2/dose or 225 mg/m2/dose, respectively. The first 6 enrolled subjects receiving oral suspension formulation were assessed for tolerability and extended PK sampling; and, only if pazopanib was tolerated, subsequent subjects were enrolled at the same starting dose with the suspension. Dose escalation was not permitted. For the tablet, a dosing nomogram was used based on the subject's BSA. Dose reduction was dependent upon the toxicity of pazopanib and disease status of the infants, toddlers, children, adolescents, and young adults. Subjects could be as young as 1 year-old infants to screen for enrollment. Subjects were assessed for initial response after 8 weeks of treatment prior to Cycle 3. A cycle was defined as 28 days of pazopanib treatment with no rest period between cycles. Treatment was administered continuously once daily. Treatment was to be discontinued if there was evidence of disease progression, unacceptable treatment-related toxicity, pregnancy. Histological classification was an important diagnostic inclusion in these subjects with a wide variety of refractory solid tumors, i.e. 7 different tumor types and each being a cohort.
Solid Tumours
DRUG: Pazopanib
Percentage of Participants Achieving Objective Response Rate (ORR) in Subjects' With Tumors of Primary Interest (RMS, NRSTS or Ewing Sarcoma/pPNET), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving either a Complete Response (CR) or partial Response (PR) based on the Investigator review. The responses were assessed by CT or MRI based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST1.1). CR, disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR, at least a 30% decrease in the disease measurement, taking as reference the disease measurement done to confirm measurable disease at study enrollment, also no new lesion or progression of any non-target measurable lesion. Confirmation was based on the disease assessment at 1 cycle or at the next scheduled visit after the initial response. Only descriptive analysis performed., From date of first dose of study treatment up to 55 months
Percentage of Participants Achieving Objective Response Rate (ORR) in Subjects' With Tumors of Secondary Interest (Osteosarcoma, mNeuroblastoma, eNeuroblastoma or Hepatoblastoma), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving either a Complete Response (CR) or partial Response (PR) based on the Investigator review. For solid tumors with measurable diseases, such as osteosarcoma, the responses was based on RECIST1.1. CR, disappearance of all target and non target lesions; PR, at least a 30% decrease in the disease measurement, taking as reference the disease measurement done to confirm measurable disease at study enrollment, also no new lesion or progression of any non-target measurable lesion. For neuroblastoma with bone marrow response, morphology was determined by hematoxylin and eosin staining of the marrow and aspirates. For neuroblastoma MIBG+ only, the responses was assessed using Curie scale for lesion scoring; For hepatoblastoma, assessment may have included the serum AFP response, in addition to the RECIST1.1 methodology. Only descriptive analysis performed., From date of first dose of study treatment up to 55 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the Investigator by Cohort, PFS was defined as the interval between the date of first dose of study medication and the earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause. Disease progression was based on radiographic evidence, and assessments made by the investigator. According to RECIST1.1, disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the disease measurements for measurable lesions, taking as reference the smallest disease measurement recorded since the start of treatment, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. For participants who did not progress or die, PFS was censored at the date of last adequate assessment or date of last adequate assessment prior to initiation of new anti-cancer therapy. Only descriptive analysis performed., From date of first dose of study treatment up to 59 months|Time to Progression (TTP) by Cohort, The TTP was defined as the interval between the date of first dose of protocol therapy and the earliest date of disease progression or death due to disease under study. Subjects were considered to have progressive disease if they had documented progression based on radiologic assessment as determined by investigator review. According to RECIST1.1, disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the disease measurements for measurable lesions, taking as reference the smallest disease measurement recorded since the start of treatment, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Only descriptive analysis performed., From date of first dose of study treatment up to 59 months|Percentage of Participants Achieving Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) by Cohort, CBR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving either a confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) for at least two protocol scheduled disease assessments based on RECIST1.1. CR, disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR, at least a 30% decrease in the disease measurement, taking as reference the disease measurement done to confirm measurable disease at study enrollment, also no new lesion or progression of any non-target measurable lesion; SD, neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. Only descriptive analysis performed., From date of first dose of study treatment up to 55 months|Duration of Response (DOR) by Cohort, DoR was defined as the time from initial response to the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, and was determined only for those participants from the mITT population with a confirmed response (CR or PR). Only descriptive analysis performed., From date of first dose of study treatment up to 59 months|Overall Survival (OS) by Cohort, OS was defined as the time from the first dose of the study medication until death due to any cause. Only descriptive analysis performed., From date of first dose of study treatment up to 61 months|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve Calculated From Time 0 to 8 h Postdose (AUC0-8h) and Calculated to the Last Quantifiable Concentration Point (AUClast) of Pazopanib by Cohort, AUC0-8h and AUClast were calculated using a validated liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and the LLOQ was 0.100 µg/mL. PK parameters were calculated from plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods. Only descriptive analysis performed., Day 1 of Cycle 1 (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose); Cycle 1 Day 15 ± 1 day (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose)|Observed Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Pazopanib by Cohort, Cmax was calculated using a validated liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and the LLOQ was 0.100 µg/mL. PK parameters were calculated from plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods. Only descriptive analysis performed., Day 1 of Cycle 1 (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose); Cycle 1 Day 15 ± 1 day (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose)|Time to Reach Peak or Maximum Concentration (Tmax) of Pazopanib by Cohort, Tmax was calculated using a validated liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and the LLOQ was 0.100 µg/mL. PK parameters were calculated from plasma concentration-time data using non-compartmental methods. Only descriptive analysis performed., Day 1 of Cycle 1 (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose); Cycle 1 Day 15 ± 1 day (0, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose)|Pazopanib Steady-state Trough (Ctrough) Levels for Participants With Drug-related Grade 2 and Above Hypertension, The relationship between toxicity (including hypertension) and pharmacokinetic parameters (pazopanib trough concentration) was analyzed. Only descriptive analysis performed., From date of first dose of study treatment up to 61 months|Number of Participants With Genetic Alterations by Low and High Values of VEGFA and VEGFR1, The frequency of genetic alterations observed in participants was presented by high and low baseline plasma levels for Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) and Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 (VEGFR-1) biomarkers. The VEGFA and VEGFR1 levels above the median were classified as high and participants with median levels or below were classified as low. Only descriptive analysis performed for participants presenting with a genetic alteration., predose Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 2 Day 1|Summary for Plasma Biomarkers Levels on Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 2 Day 1 by Cohort, The following biomarker parameters were analyzed: proto-oncogene c-KIT (c-KIT), Fibroblast growth factor (FGF), Placental growth factor PGF), Angiopoietin-1 receptor (TIE2), Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), Vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGF-C), Vascular endothelial growth factor D (VEGF-D), Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 (VEGFR-1) and Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2)). Only descriptive analysis performed., predose Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 2 Day 1|Summary for Change From Baseline Levels of Plasma Biomarkers by High and Low Pazopanib Steady State Trough Concentration and Cohort, Participants with steady state trough concentration median levels for the following biomarker parameters (proto-oncogene c-KIT (c-KIT), Fibroblast growth factor (FGF), Placental growth factor PGF), Angiopoietin-1 receptor (TIE2), Vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A), Vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGF-C), Vascular endothelial growth factor D (VEGF-D), Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 1 (VEGFR-1) and Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2)) above the median levels were classified as high or below median levels were classified as low. Only descriptive analysis performed., predose Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 2 Day 1
The study design included a hierarchical 2-stage tumor response assessment with each cohort independent from one other. First, an initial 10 subjects were enrolled into each cohort. In the event of ≥ 1 response in any of these initial subjects, an additional 10 subjects may be enrolled in that cohort to proceed. In the event of ≥ 3 responses, the agent was considered effective. However after end of-stage 1, study enrollment stopped due to insufficient antitumor activity. Subjects who discontinued study treatment were followed for survival status. The study was to continue accruing data and thus, remained open for approximately 1 year from Last Subject Last Visit (LSLV).