Dasatinib for the Prevention of Oxaliplatin-Induced Neuropathy in Patients With Metastatic Gastrointestinal Cancer Receiving FOLFOX Chemotherapy With or Without Bevacizumab
This phase Ib trial studies side effects and best dose of dasatinib in preventing oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with gastrointestinal cancers who are receiving FOLFOX regimen with or without bevacizumab. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as leucovorin, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX regimen), work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. However, the buildup of oxaliplatin in the cranial nerves can result in damage or the nerves. Dasatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Blocking these enzymes may reduce oxaliplatin-induced peripheral neuropathy.
Advanced Colorectal Carcinoma|Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Colon Cancer|Stage II Rectal Cancer|Stage III Colon Cancer|Stage III Rectal Cancer|Esophageal Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Bile Duct Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Gall Bladder Cancer|Small Bowel Adenocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Dasatinib|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of dasatinib, The RP2D will be defined as the lowest intermittent dose of dasatinib that affects serum biomarkers of OCT2 without influencing the pharmacokinetic properties of oxaliplatin., Up to 14 days|Incidence of adverse events, The dose-limiting toxicity and toxicity profile will be based using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 and Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN) 20. Toxicity will be defined as adverse events deemed to be at least possibly related to dasatinib treatment. Adverse events and toxicities will be summarized by dose level, and will tabulate these events by type and severity. Will summarize the numbers of patients who required dose reductions in dasatinib or oxaliplatin and the cumulative doses received. The CIPN20 will be measured in these subjects, and will be summarized within and across dose levels, and will be used to support and inform assumptions for a subsequent phase 2 trial., At the end of Cycle 1 (cycle length is 28 days)
Dasatinib on pharmacokinetics (PK) of oxaliplatin, Objective is to evaluate the influence of dasatinib on the pharmacokinetics of oxaliplatin and vice versa. Oxaliplatin PK will be measured at pre-dose, 1 hour, immediately prior to end of infusion of oxaliplatin, and 0.5, 1, 2, 4 hours after end of infusion on day 1; Dasatinib PK will be measured at pre-dose and 0.5, 1.5, 2.5, 3, 4.5, and 6.5 hours after taking dasatinib on day 14; PK of dasatinib and oxaliplatin will be measured on day 15 pre-dose of dasatinib, prior to starting oxaliplatin infusion, 1 hour after start of oxaliplatin infusion, immediately prior to end of infusion with oxaliplatin, and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4 hours after end of oxaliplatin infusion. PK parameters calculated using standard non-compartmental methods, and non-linear mixed effect models will be created to inform the use of limited-sampling strategies for subsequent confirmatory studies. Area Under the Curve \[AUC\] will be calculated for each drug Oxaliplatin - ug x h/ml and Dasatinib- ng x h/ml, Baseline, days 1, 2, and 14
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of dasatinib in combination with oxaliplatin and fluorouracil (5FU) (modified version 6 regimen of leucovorin, fluorouracil and oxaliplatin \[mFOLFOX6\]) with or without bevacizumab in patients with colon, rectal or other GI cancer, defined as the lowest intermittent dose of dasatinib that affects serum biomarkers of OCT2 without influencing the pharmacokinetic properties of oxaliplatin.

II. To determine the toxicity profile (based on Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy \[CIPN\]20 and Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] version \[v.\] 5.0) of dasatinib in combination with oxaliplatin/5-FU/bevacizumab in patients with colorectal cancer or other GI cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the influence of dasatinib on the pharmacokinetics of oxaliplatin and vice versa in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of dasatinib.

Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, leucovorin IV over 2 hours, fluorouracil slow IV push over 2-4 minutes followed by continuous infusion over 46 hours on days 1 and 15. Patients also receive dasatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 14, 15, and 28 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2. Patients may receive bevacizumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to cycle 3 day 1 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.