Efficacy of Acupuncture in Patients With Lower Extremity Amputation With Neuroma
Neuroma often occurs after major nerve damage or transection and can be diagnosed with pain at the tip of the stump, positive tinel, imaging (USG/MR). Various treatment methods are used for neuropathic pain, including pharmacological agents, intralesional steroid and local anesthetic injection, alcohol, phenol, radiofrequency or cryotherapy, ablation and surgical applications. Exercise (ROM and relaxation), TENS, biofeedback, hypnosis, acupuncture, psychotherapy, mirror therapy can be used in the treatment of neuropathic pain in amputees. In this study, the investigators aimed to examine the effectiveness of acupuncture on pain, neuroma size and functional status in individuals with lower extremity amputation with neuroma.
Neuroma Amputation
OTHER: Only TENS|PROCEDURE: Acupuncture+TENS
LANSS (Self-Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Sign), The LANSS scale consists of two parts. If the score is 12 and above, it will be classified as neuropathic, and if it is below 12, it will be classified as nociceptive pain, baseline, change from baseline VAS at 4 and 16 weeks|Locomotor Capacity Index, the patient's ability to perform 14 activities with the prosthesis will be evaluated. The total maximum score is 42, and the higher the total score, the higher the locomotor capacity., baseline, change from baseline VAS at 4 and 16 weeks|10-point VAS, The overall prosthesis satisfaction and socket comfort of the patients will be evaluated with a 10-point VAS. Patients will be asked to rate their condition from 0 (none) to 10 (maximum)., baseline, change from baseline VAS at 4 and 16 weeks|2-minute walking test, the distance he walked at the end of two minutes will be recorded in meters (m)., baseline, change from baseline VAS at 4 and 16 weeks|ultrasonographic measurement, The size of the neuroma will be visualized with a 7.5-12 MHz linear transducer (LOGIQ 7 Pro; GE Yokogawa medical system, Tokyo, Japan) USG and measured by the same clinician, baseline, change from baseline VAS at 4 and 16 weeks
The study was designed as a prospective, randomized, controlled trial. Thirty six people who met the inclusion criteria will randomized into two groups of 18 people. The first group will be designated as acupuncture therapy group and patients in the second group will be designated as the control group. Patients will be evaluated with visuel analog scale (10cm-VAS), LANSS (Self-Leeds Assessment of Neuropathic Symptoms and Sign) scale, Locomotor Capacity Index, 2-minute walking test, USG measurement. The patients will be evaluated at the beginning of the treatment (0.month), the end of the treatment (1st month), and the 4th month.