Siltuximab in Treating Patients With Primary, Post-Polycythemia Vera, or Post-Essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis
The main purpose of this investigational research study is to determine how safe and tolerable the study drug siltuximab is in patients with myelofibrosis (MF). This medication has been approved by the FDA for another condition (multicentric castleman's disease (MCD), but not for myelofibrosis (MF). In MCD, siltuximab resulted in improvement in symptoms and anemia. While MCD and MF are different diseases, they share some common features including a protein call interleukin-6 (IL-6) that may be important in causing symptoms of MCD and MF.
Myelofibrosis|Polycythemia Vera|Primary Myelofibrosis|Thrombocytopenia
PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Siltuximab
Incidence of Adverse Events, To evaluate safety and tolerability of the drug siltuximab in the myelofibrosis patient population. Adverse events will be assessed by type, timing, frequency, and attribution and will be graded according to the NCI's common terminology criteria, version 4.03., Up to 30 days after last treatment
Clinical Improvement (CI): changes in symptoms, Changes in the baseline symptom burden using Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form (MPN-SAF) questionnaire., At baseline and after cycle 3 (9 weeks)|Clinical Improvement (CI): splenomegaly, To determine spleen response, palpation will be used, using centimeters below the left costal margin, and if body habitus is prohibitive, by ultrasonography., At baseline and after cycle 3 (9 weeks)|Clinical Improvement (CI): Anemia response, Baseline hemoglobin level and/or transfusion-dependence will be recorded at baseline and compared to results after cycle 3, At baseline and after cycle 3 (9 weeks)|Overall Response Rate (ORR), The ORR will be assessed after 6 cycles of therapy using standard criteria published by the International Working Group for Myelofibrosis Research and Treatment which will evaluate for complete response, partial response, clinical improvement, or stable disease., After 6 cycles of treatment (18 weeks)
Iron Dysregulation, Peripheral blood will be taken to determine if siltuximab results in improvement in iron dysregulation., At baseline, after cycle 3 (9 weeks), and after cycle 6 (18 weeks)|Changes in inflammatory stress: C-reactive protein (CRP), To determine changes in inflammatory stress that may correlate with clinical response. To assess this, CRP will be measured., At baseline, after cycle 3 (9 weeks), and after cycle 6 (18 weeks)|Changes in inflammatory stress: hepcidin levels, To determine changes in inflammatory stress that may correlate with clinical response. To assess this, hepcidin will be measured., At baseline, after cycle 3 (9 weeks), and after cycle 6 (18 weeks)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate safety and tolerability of the drug siltuximab in the myelofibrosis patient population.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine clinical improvement (CI). II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if siltuximab results in improvement in iron dysregulation. II. To determine changes in inflammatory stress that may correlate with clinical response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive siltuximab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Patients also undergo bone marrow biopsy and aspiration at baseline and at the end of treatment (within 30 days of last siltuximab dose) or as clinically indicated. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or patient decision to withdraw. Patients who are responding after 6 courses may receive additional siltuximab treatment for up to 1 year at the discretion of the study doctor.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.