Vaccination With Dendritic Cells Loaded With Brain Tumor Stem Cells for Progressive Malignant Brain Tumor
This is a single center Phase I study to determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of autologous dendritic cells (DCs) loaded with allogeneic brain tumor stem cells administered as a vaccination in children and adults with recurrent brain tumors. Once the MTD has been determined, we will conduct a phase II study to determine efficacy.

Clinical trials that utilize DCs for immunotherapy have demonstrated significant survival benefit for patients who exhibit robust immune responses against tumor cells. Unfortunately, at the present time the majority of tumor patients are unable to mount an adequate immune response and thus succumb to their tumors. We postulate that the inability to generate an appropriate immune response in these patients is due to a lack of sufficient numbers of appropriate T cells due to an inadequate source of tumor antigens.
Brain Tumor|Glioblastoma|Medulloblastoma|Ependymoma|Anaplastic Astrocytoma
BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic Cells|DRUG: Imiquimod
Maximum Tolerated Dose, To determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of dendritic cells (DCs) loaded with brain tumor stem cells (BTSCs) as a source of tumor antigen for immunotherapy in children and adults with recurrent GBM, ependymoma or medulloblastoma brain tumors. Toxicity is determined using the criteria established by the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events V 4.0 (CTCAE)., 4 Weeks Post Vaccination
Time to Tumor Progression, To determine time to tumor progression in this patient population - exhibit a prolonged time to tumor progression by the absence of tumor growth as determined by MRI., Every 4 Weeks From Baseline to 1 Year
Autologous DCs will be obtained from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from each patient by leukapheresis. An established BTSC line will be used as an allogeneic source of tumor antigen. Approximately 4 weeks will be required after the leukapheresis for vaccine production and the first vaccine administration.

Each patient will receive an injection of DCs at his/her assigned dose once every 2 weeks during the first 8 weeks, followed by injections every 4 weeks for an additional 10 vaccinations. Imiquimod will be applied to the vaccination site just prior to and 24 hours after each vaccine administration.

This study will use an accelerated dose escalation design (1 subject per level) until dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is encountered, after which a traditional phase I design (3 subjects per level) will be implemented. DLT is defined as grade 3 or greater treatment related toxicity. A total of 6 patients will be treated at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or, in the absence of DLT, at dose level 3.