Papilocare®: Effects on Regression of Histologically Confirmed Cervical Intraepithelial Lesions 1 and Tolerance
clinical trial comparing the regression rate after 12 months of histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial lesions 1 in 2 parallel groups. One group using the vaginal gel Papilocare® for 6 months and one group without any treatment.
Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions of the Cervix|Human Papilloma Virus Infection|Cervix Lesion
DEVICE: PAPILOCARE
Cervical cytology normalization after 12 months., Compare the normalization rate of the cervical cytology in each arm after 12 months.

The difference will be considered statistically significant if the treatment group has a normalization rate of 25% or higher.

An "unsatisfactory" smear in its realization will have to be repeated within 45 days., Month 12
Cervical cytology normalization after 6 months., Compare the normalization rate of the cervical cytology in each arm after 6 months., Month 6|HPV clearance after 6 months, 2) Compare in each arm the rate of transition from a positive HPV testing at inclusion to a negative HPV testing after 6 months.

The difference will be considered statistically significant if the treatment group has a clearance rate of 25% or higher., Month 6|HPV clearance after 12 months, 2) Compare in each arm the rate of transition from a positive HPV testing at inclusion to a negative HPV testing after 12 months.

The difference will be considered statistically significant if the treatment group has a clearance rate of 25% or higher., Month 12|Evaluation of tolerance of Papilocare vaginal gel, Compare in each group the number of episodes of vaginal discomfort over the first 6 months., Month 6
Cervical cancer affects 3000 women and causes 1100 deaths every year in France. This type of cancer usually takes about 10 to 15 years to develop and has distinct precursor stages. Persistent infection by Human Papillomavirus is necessary for the development of these lesions.

Currently, when a colposcopy biopsy reveals low grade lesion, it is recommanded to make a new cervical cytology or HPV testing, 12 months later. No treatment is recommended over this period. However 11% of these lesions evolve from low to high grade.

Papilocare® is a vaginal gel that would improve the re-epithelialization of the uterine cervix. Creating a protective film on the cervix, it could induce a favorable environment for regression of the cervical intraepithelial lesions 1 and for clearance of Human Papillomavirus.

The goal of our study is to include 150 women with a histologically confirmed cervical intraepithelial lesions 1. Half of them will be using the vaginal gel Papilocare® for 6 month while the other half will not receive any treatment (as suggested by current recommendations). Each patient will have a cervical cytology and a HPV testing after 6 months and after 12 months. Therefore we will be able to compare the percentage of normalization of cervical cytology and HPV clearance for each group after 6 months and after 12 months.

Patients will visit the Orleans hospital once for the inclusion and twice for follow-ups after 6 months and 12 months.

If the use of Papilocare® really induces a significant regression of low grade lesions, this vaginal gel could be offered as soon as these lesions are histologically identified in order to stop its progress to high grade.