Gemcitabine for the Prevention of Intravesical Recurrence of Urothelial Cancer in Patients With Upper Urinary Tract Urothelial Cancer Undergoing Radical Nephroureterectomy, GEMINI Study
This phase II trial studies how well gemcitabine works in preventing urothelial cancer from coming back within the bladder (intravesical recurrence) in patients with upper urinary tract urothelial cancer undergoing radical nephroureterectomy. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Instilling gemcitabine into the bladder during surgery, may reduce the chance of recurrence of upper urinary tract urothelial cancer.
Stage 0a Renal Pelvis and Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage 0a Renal Pelvis Cancer AJCC v8|Stage 0a Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage 0is Renal Pelvis and Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage 0is Renal Pelvis Cancer AJCC v8|Stage 0is Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Renal Pelvis and Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Renal Pelvis Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Renal Pelvis and Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Renal Pelvis Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Renal Pelvis and Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Renal Pelvis Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Renal Pelvis and Ureter Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Renal Pelvis Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ureter Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride
Urothelial Carcinoma Relapse-free Survival, Number of participants without recurrence of Urothelial Carcinoma. Relapse-free survival will be assessed by cystoscopy and urine cytology., Up to 1 year
Time to Recurrence, Number of days from Radical Nephroureterectomy to date of histologic proof of recurrence/relapse of Urothelial Carcinoma, Up to 1 year|Incidence of Adverse Events, Adverse events will be categorized by grade and further distinguished as serious adverse events. Furthermore, they will be designated by each site as not related, unlikely, possible, probably, and definitely related to treatment adverse events. they will also be summarized and organized by organ system, with the number and percent of patients experiencing the adverse event at least once and the number of patients exposed. Adverse events will be described and analyzed qualitatively. Adverse events will be grouped into categories and numerically described., Up to 2 years
Incidence of Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer, Number of subject to experience muscle-invasive bladder cancer. Assessed by Urothelial Carcinoma on final pathology of Transurethral Resection of Bladder Tumor specimen or Urothelial Carcinoma on final pathology of radical cystectomy specimen., Up to 2 years|Time to Development of Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer, Defined as the time (days) from date of Radical Nephroureterectomy to date of histologic proof of Urothelial Carcinoma, Up to 2 years|Time to Death, Defined as the time (days) from date of Radical Nephroureterectomy to date of death, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of a single intraoperative intravesical instillation of gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine) at time of radical nephroureterectomy (RNU) for clinically localized upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) in preventing intravesical recurrence of urothelial cancer (UC) at one year.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess time to recurrence for entire duration of follow-up. II. To assess the qualitative and quantitative toxicities.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To stratify intravesical UC recurrence free survival by tumor grade, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, tumor stage, ureteral tumor location, and history of bladder cancer.

II. To assess incidence and time to development of muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravesically for at least 1 hour at the time of RNU.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 2 weeks, and 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months.