A Study of RO4929097 in Patients With Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma That Have Failed Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF)/Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor (VEGFR) Therapy
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the activity of RO4929097 in renal cell carcinoma patients that have failed therapy with VEGF/VEGFR directed agents.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: Gamma-Secretase Inhibitor RO4929097|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Objective Response Rate (PR + CR) Using RECIST, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, Up to 12 months
Time to Progression, Time to Progression is duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression, Up to 12 months|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events, Tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest., Up to 12 months|Progression-free Survival Rate, Progression-free survival is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 12 months|Rate of Disease Stabilizations, Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study, Up to 12 months|Tumor Control Rate (CR + PR + SD), Tumor control rate is defined as the sum of objective response rate (CR+PR) and stable disease (SD) rate., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the objective response rate of RO4929097 in patients with advanced kidney cancer and failure of anti-VEGF directed therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the antitumor activity of RO4929097 through secondary endpoints including: duration of radiologic response, rate of disease stabilizations, rate of tumor control rate (CR+PR+SD), and progression-free \& overall survival rates.

II. To assess the safety and tolerability of single agent RO4929097 in patients with advanced RCC.

III. To explore expression of Notch biomarkers in RCC patients and their potential interaction with RO4929097 response and toxicity.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gamma-secretase/Notch signalling pathway inhibitor RO4929097 orally (PO) on days 1-3, 8-10, and 15-17. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 12 months.