Pelvic Radiation Therapy or Vaginal Implant Radiation Therapy, Paclitaxel, and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With High-Risk Stage I or Stage II Endometrial Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies pelvic radiation therapy to see how well it works compared with vaginal implant radiation therapy, paclitaxel, and carboplatin in treating patients with high-risk stage I or stage II endometrial cancer. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Implant radiation therapy uses radioactive material placed directly into or near a tumor to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether pelvic radiation therapy alone is more effective than vaginal implant radiation therapy, paclitaxel, and carboplatin in treating patients with endometrial cancer.
Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fatigue|Neurotoxicity Syndrome|Obesity|Stage I Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7
RADIATION: 3-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Carboplatin|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Internal Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Number of Participants With Recurrence or Death Events at Primary Analysis, Recurrence-Free Survival is the period from study entry until disease recurrence, death, or date of last contact, Within 4 weeks after completing or discontinuing study therapy, then every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for 3 years, then as clinically indicated, assessed up to 10 years
Number of Participants With Death Events, The number of death events is reported. Overall survival is reported by the number of deaths occurring while on study., Overall survival is measured from study enrollment for up to 10 years.|Number of Participants With Sites of Recurrence, Three competing risk analyses were carried out for three different types of recurrences: 1) any vaginal, 2) any pelvic or any PA nodes and 3) any distant. More than one type of recurrence can be counted for an individual patient. A death prior to a specific type of recurrence was considered a competing event., Within 4 weeks after completing or discontinuing study therapy, then every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for 3 years, then as clinically indicated thereafter, up to 10 years|Patient Reported Fatigue, Patient reported fatigue as measured with the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy- Fatigue scale (FACIT-Fatigue). The FACIT-Fatigue contains 13 items. Each item was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). For the negative items, reversal was performed prior to score calculation. According to the FACIT measurement system, the Fatigue score was the summation of the individual item scores if more than 50% of subscale items were answered. When unanswered items existed, a subscale score was prorated by multiplying the mean of the answered item scores by the number of items in the scale. The FACIT-Fatigue score ranges 0-52 with a large score suggests less fatigue., Prior to study treatment (baseline), 4 weeks post the starting of study treatment, 10-11 weeks post the starting of study treatment, 8 months post the starting of study treatment, 14 months post the starting of study treatment|Patient-reported Neurotoxicity, Patient reported neurotoxicity symptoms as measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group - neurotoxicity subscale (short version) (FACT/GOG-Ntx subscale). The FACT/GOG-Ntx subscale contains 4 items. Each item was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). For the negative items, reversal was performed prior to score calculation. According to the FACIT measurement system, the Ntx score was the summation of the individual item scores if more than 50% of subscale items were answered. When unanswered items existed, a subscale score was prorated by multiplying the mean of the answered item scores by the number of items in the scale. The Ntx score ranges 0-16 with a large score suggesting less neurotoxicity., Prior to study treatment (baseline), 4 weeks post the starting of study treatment, 10-11 weeks post the starting of study treatment, 8 months post the starting of study treatment, 14 months post the starting of study treatment.|Patient-reported Quality of Life, Patient reported quality of life as measured with the Treatment Outcome Index of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for endometrial cancer (FACT-En TOI). The FACT-En TOI is a scale for assessing general QOL of endometrial cancer patients. It consists of three subscales: Physical Well Being (7 items), Functional Well Being (7 items), and Endometrium Cancer subscale (16 items). Each item in the FACT-En TOI was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). . The FACT-En TOI score is calculated as the sum of the subscale scores if more than 80% of the FACT-En TOI items provide valid answers and all of the component subscales have valid scores. The FACT-En TOI score ranges 0-120 with a large score suggests better QOL, Prior to study treatment (baseline), 4 weeks post the starting of study treatment, 10-11 weeks post the starting of study treatment, 8 months post the starting of study treatment, 14 months post the starting of study treatment
Gene Expression Based Risk Score, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if treatment with vaginal cuff brachytherapy followed by three cycles of chemotherapy reduces the rate of recurrence or death (i.e. increases recurrence-free survival) when compared to pelvic radiation therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare survival between the two treatment groups. II. To compare patterns of failure between the two treatment groups. III. To compare physical functioning, fatigue and neurotoxicity between the two treatment groups.

IV. To examine associations between primary comorbid illnesses and obesity on survival, fatigue and physical functioning.

V. To evaluate the psychometric properties (such as construct validity, reliability, sensitivity to treatment and responsiveness over time) of the Patient-Reported-Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Fatigue Short form 1, and to evaluate fatigue measurement equivalence between women with endometrial cancer and age-matched women from the general United States (US) population.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the ability of gene expression signatures in early stage endometrial cancer to predict recurrence and to explore the association between gene expression signatures in early stage endometrial cancer and clinical characteristics and outcome.

II. To bank whole blood specimens for future research.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo conventional or intensity-modulated pelvic radiation therapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 5-6 weeks (total of 25-28 fractions) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stage II disease or stage I disease with a confirmed diagnosis of clear cell and/or papillary serous histology may also undergo 1 or 2 intravaginal (i.e., vaginal cuff) brachytherapy boost treatments.

ARM II: Patients undergo vaginal cuff brachytherapy comprising 3-5 high-dose rate brachytherapy treatments over approximately 2 weeks or 1 or 2 low-dose rate brachytherapy treatments over 1-2 days. Beginning within 3 weeks after initiating brachytherapy, patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Chemotherapy repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter for up to 5 years.