Study of Chemoradiotherapy With Envafolimab For The Treatment of Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer
This is a single-arm, single-center, exploratory study, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of envafolimab combined with Chemoradiotherapy in participants with locally advanced cervical cancer.
Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Envafolimab|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: External Beam Radiotherapy (EBRT)|RADIATION: Brachytherapy (BT)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) at Month 24 as Assessed by the Investigator, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS data will be cumulated to a certain cut-off date and the analysis will be performed via Kaplan-Meier approach to estimate the PFS rate at Month 24 using the entire PFS data up to the cut-off date., The cut-off date is event-driven and estimated to be approximately 48 months.
Objective Response Rate(ORR), The ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects with confirmed CR or confirmed PR per RECIST v1.1., Up to 2 years|Duration of response (DoR), The DoR is defined as the time from first response to disease progression or death in the absence of disease progression. First response was defined as first CR or PR was achieved. DoR will be summarized for responding patients and DoR rates (%) at 12, 24, and 36 months will be provided., Up to 2 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) at Month 12/36, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS data will be cumulated to a certain cut-off date and the analysis will be performed via Kaplan-Meier approach to estimate the PFS rate at Month 12/36 using the entire PFS data up to the cut-off date., The cut-off date is event-driven and estimated to be approximately 48 months.|Overall Survival (OS) at Month 12/24/36, OS is the time from randomization to death due to any cause. OS data will be cumulated to a certain cut-off date and the analysis will be performed via Kaplan-Meier approach to estimate the OS rate at Month 12/24/36 using the entire OS data up to the cut-off date., The cut-off date is event-driven and estimated to be approximately 48 months.|Change from Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status Score and Physical Function Score., The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire that rates the overall quality of life in cancer participants. The first 28 questions use a 4-point scale (1=not at all to 4=very much) for evaluating function (physical, role, social, cognitive, emotional), symptoms (diarrhea, fatigue, dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, nausea/vomiting, constipation, and pain) and financial difficulties. The last 2 questions use a 7-point scale (1=very poor to 7=excellent) to evaluate overall health and quality of life. Global scores are converted to a score of 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating improved health status. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 48 months|Change from Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Symptom Specific Scale for Cervical Cancer (EORTC QLQ-CX24) Score., The EORTC QLQ-CX24 is a questionnaire that rates the symptoms common to women with cervical cancer and evaluates the impact of disease and/or treatments. The 24 items use a 4-point scale (1=not at all to 4=very much) and are classified into 3 multi-item scales, 11 items with symptom experience, 3 items with body image, and 4 items with sexual/ vaginal functioning. The other items of the questionnaire are lymphedema, peripheral neuropathy, menopausal symptom, sexual worry, sexual activity, and sexual enjoyment. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-CX24 score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 48 months|Number of participants with adverse events (AEs), An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, disease, or worsening of preexisting condition temporally associated with study treatment and irrespective of causality to study treatment., Up to approximately 48 months
This is a single-arm, single-center, exploratory study, the purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of envafolimab combined with Chemoradiotherapy in participants with locally advanced cervical cancer.