Polycystic Ovary Syndrome and Liraglutide as Add-on Therapy on Metformin
The purpose of this study was to determine whether combined treatment with liraglutide and metformin is more effective than liraglutide or metformin as monotherapy in the treatment of obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) who had been previously poor responders regarding weight reduction on metformin monotherapy. We anticipated greater changes in body weight in patients on combined treatment than in those on monotherapy with liraglutide or metformin.
PCOS|Obesity
DRUG: metformin|DRUG: liraglutide|DRUG: metformin and liraglutide
The main outcome was change in body weight., Patient's body weight was mesured at the base point and every four weeks during 12 weeks of clinical trial.
The secondary outcome was change in body mass index (BMI)., Patient's BMI was defined as the patient's body mass in kilograms divided by the square of their height in meters., Patient's body weight were measured at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial. Patient's height was measured at the basepoint.|The secondary outcome was change in waist circumference., Patient's waist circumference was measured in centimeters., Patient's waist circumference was measured at the basepoint and every four weeks during 12 weeks of clinical trial.
The other outcomes was changes changes in fasting concentrations of glucose., Patient's blood was drawn between 8 and 9 a.m. Concentrations of fasting glucose was measured in mmol/L., Patient's fasting blood was drawn at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial.|Other outcome was change in fasting concentration of insulin., Patient's blood was drawn between 8 and 9 a.m. Fasting concentrations of insulin was measured in mU/L., Patient's fasting blood was drawn at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial.|Other outcome was change in blood concentrations of LH (luteinizing hormone)., Patient's blood was drawn between 8 and 9 a.m. Concentration of LH was measured in U/L., Patient's fasting blood was drawn at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial.|Other outcome was change in blood concentrations of FSH (follicle-stimulating hormone)., Patient's blood was drawn between 8 and 9 a.m. Blood concentrations of FSH was measured in U/L., Patient's fasting blood was drawn at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial.|Other outcome was change in blood concentration of testosterone., Patient's blood was drawn between 8 and 9 a.m. Blood concentration was measured in nmol/L., Patient's fasting blood was drawn at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial.|Other outcome was change in blood concentration in androstenedione., Patient's blood was drawn between 8 and 9 a.m. Blood concentrations of androstenedione was measured in nmol/L., Patient's fasting blood was drawn at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial.|Other outcome was change in blood concentrations of SHBG (sex hormone-binding globulin)., Patient's blood was drawn between 8 and 9 a.m. Blood concentrations of SHBG was measured in nmol/L., Patient's fasting blood was drawn at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial.|Other outcome was change in blood concentration of DHEAS (dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate)., Patient's blood was drawn between 8 and 9 a.m. Blood concentrations of DHEAS was measured in micromol/L., Patient's fasting blood was drawn at the basepoint and every four weeks during the 12 weeks of clinical trial.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether combined treatment with liraglutide and metformin is more effective than liraglutide or metformin as monotherapy in the treatment of obese women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) who had been previously poor responders regarding weight reduction on metformin monotherapy. We anticipated greater changes in body weight in patients on combined treatment than in those on monotherapy with liraglutide or metformin.