EXPAREL or Lidocane as Local Anesthetic in Patients Undergoing Pleuroscopy With Pleural Biopsy and Indwelling Pleural Catheter Placement
This phase II trial investigates the effect of EXPAREL compared to lidocane as a local anesthetic in patients who are undergoing pleuroscopy with pleural biopsy and indwelling pleural catheter placement. This trial aims to see whether EXPAREL or lidocane is able to make patients more comfortable.
Malignant Pleural Neoplasm
DRUG: Lidocaine|DRUG: Liposomal Bupivacaine|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Global chest pain score, Will be evaluated by the Global chest pain score at the time of discharge from recovery area using a Visual Analog Scale 0-100 and represents the pain experienced by the patient., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare Global chest pain score (measured on the Visual Analog Scale \[VAS\] scale) post-procedure and post procedural chest pain (measured on the numerical rating scale), at the time of discharge from recovery between liposomal bupivacaine (EXPAREL) and 1 percent lidocaine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare post procedural chest pain (measured on the numerical rating scale) at the time of discharge from recovery, 24 hours and 48 hours post procedure between EXPAREL and 1 percent lidocaine.

II. To assess the change in global chest pain score (measured on the VAS scale) from baseline to the time of discharge from recovery, and post procedural chest pain (measured on the numerical rating scale) from baseline over time between EXPAREL and 1 percent lidocaine.

III. To compare the number of narcotics within 24 hours, and from 24 to 48 hours post procedure between EXPAREL and 1 percent lidocaine.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP A: Patients receive liposomal bupivacaine via injection into the intercostal nerve block.

GROUP B: Patients receive lidocaine via injection into the pleuroscopy port incision sites and indwelling pleural catheter site.