Promoting Smoking Cessation in Lung Cancer Screening Through Proactive Treatment
This pragmatic trial will evaluate the value of routinely providing proactive smoking cessation support to current smokers as a part of participating in lung cancer screening within Veterans Health Administration.
Smoking Reduction|Tobacco Use|Tobacco Smoking|Tomography|Lung Diseases|Lung Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Unsigned note to provider about cessation medication prescription|BEHAVIORAL: Proactive Telephone Counseling from VA Quitline
Self-reported Smoking Abstinence, The primary outcome measure is self-reported abstinence from smoking 12 months after lung cancer screening, using information obtained from study surveys and electronic medical records. This measure only applies to patient enrollees., 12 months after lung cancer screening visit
Cost of Smoking Cessation Care, Costs of implementing smoking cessation care from lung cancer screening to 12 months post-lung cancer screening will be monitored in both the unstructured and proactive care arms. Cost of implementing smoking cessation care is defined as the sum of the cost of behavioral counseling, cost of pharmacotherapies, and cost of intervention staff effort. This measure only applies to patient enrollees., Time period from lung cancer screening through 12 months after lung cancer screening|Patients' Experience With Telephone Counseling, Binary variable for whether participant reported being either very satisfied or somewhat satisfied with VA Quitline telephone counseling. This measure only applies to patient enrollees in the proactive arm., 3 months after lung cancer screening visit|Patients' Motivational Assessment, Surveys will assess patient motivation to quit smoking on a scale from 0-10 (higher scores indicate higher motivation to quit smoking). This measure only applies to patient enrollees., 3 months after lung cancer screening visit|Patients' Perception of Susceptibility to Harm, Surveys will assess patients' perceived susceptibility to the harmful effects of smoking and perception of screening as protective. Patients were asked 5 questions related to smoking and screening, and an overall score based on the sum of correct answers was calculated. Scores range from 0-5 (higher scores indicate greater knowledge about harmful effects of smoking and benefits of screening). This measure only applies to patient enrollees., 3 months after lung cancer screening visit|Patients' Self-efficacy Assessment, Surveys will assess patients' self-efficacy for quitting smoking on a scale from 0-10 (higher scores indicate greater self-efficacy for quitting smoking). This measure only applies to patient enrollees., 3 months after lung cancer screening visit|Patients' Motivational Assessment, Surveys will assess patient motivation to quit smoking on a scale from 0-10 (higher scores indicate higher motivation to quit smoking). This measure only applies to patient enrollees., 12 months after lung cancer screening visit|Patients' Self-efficacy Assessment, Surveys will assess patients' self-efficacy for quitting smoking on a scale from 0-10 (higher scores indicate greater self-efficacy for quitting smoking). This measure only applies to patient enrollees., 12 months after lung cancer screening visit
This trial is a pragmatic randomized trial targeting the care of current smokers who are participating in lung cancer screening at two VA sites. Primary care providers at these sites will be randomized, and half will be offered tools to help integrate proactive smoking cessation support into the lung cancer screening process. Key proactive elements include proactive telephone outreach to all current smokers by a VA Quitline counselor that follows mailed results letters, and providing providers guidance in offering proactive cessation medication support as part of the lung cancer screening process.