The Effectiveness of "Multi-Psychological Empowerment" Courses
In the first-year project of this study, oncology nurses have reported experiencing massive stress, insufficient communication ability, and the need for communication-related training. 70% of them had moderate or higher severity of workload, fatigue, and psychological distress (at the measure point) before being provided with Basic Remote Psychological Support Course (BRPSC). A month after BRPSC, some oncology nurses have indicated/affirmed the benefits of undergoing the comprehensive psycho oncology education training courses. Thus, the second- and third-year continuation projects are focused on the development and delivery of Multi-Psychological Empowerment Courses (MPEC) for oncology nurses
Cancer|Oncology|Psychological|Self Efficacy|Communication
OTHER: Multi-Psychological Empowerment Courses
The change in Physical and Psychological Symptoms, The change in oncology nurses' physical and psychological state will be measured by physical and psychological state survey. It use Numerical Rating Scale(VRS) 0-10. It is a 11 Point Likert Scale (e. g. 0 is no pain; 10 is unbearable pain)., 5 time points: Time 1 (before the course) ; after the course starts, Time 2: 4th weeks ; Time3: 8th weeks；Time 4:12th weeks；Time 5(back to work 1 month)|The change in Workload, The change in oncology nurses' workload will be measured by the self-designed scale using VRS (Numerical Rating Scale). It measures the subjective perception of oncology nurses about their workload in the past week, with scores ranging from 0 to 10.The higher the score, the greater the workload of the oncology nurses., 5 time points: Time 1 (before the course) ; after the course starts, Time 2: 4th weeks ; Time3: 8th weeks；Time 4:12th weeks；Time 5(back to work 1 month)
Self efficacy scale (GSES), Oncology nurses' self-efficacy were measured by self efficacy scale. There are 10 questions about the level of confidence in these situations. It's a 4 point (1-4),higher the score means the more confident you have. There is also 11 point (0-10) scale that higher the score means the more confident you are in caring for patients., 5 time points: Time 1 (before the course) ; after the course starts, Time 2: 4th weeks ; Time3: 8th weeks；Time 4:12th weeks；Time 5(back to work 1 month)|Communication ability scale, Oncology nurses' communication skills were measured by communication ability scale.It is a 5 Liker scale(1-5),higher scores represent better communication skills., 5 time points: Time 1 (before the course) ; after the course starts, Time 2: 4th weeks ; Time3: 8th weeks；Time 4:12th weeks；Time 5(back to work 1 month)|Efferson Empathy Scale, Oncology nurses' empathy were measured by Efferson Empathy Scale. It is a 7 Liker scale(1-7),higher scores means someone have more empathy., 5 time points: Time 1 (before the course) ; after the course starts, Time 2: 4th weeks ; Time3: 8th weeks；Time 4:12th weeks；Time 5(back to work 1 month)|Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Spiritual Well-Being （FACIT-Sp）, Oncology nurses' spiritual well-being were measured by FACIT-Sp.It is a 5 Liker scale(0-4),higher scores represent better well-being., 5 time points: Time 1 (before the course) ; after the course starts, Time 2: 4th weeks ; Time3: 8th weeks；Time 4:12th weeks；Time 5(back to work 1 month)|Burnout Inventory survey, Oncology nurses' burnout will be measured by Burnout Inventory survey.It is a 7 Liker scale(0-6),higher scores represent high level burnout ., 5 time points: Time 1 (before the course) ; after the course starts, Time 2: 4th weeks ; Time3: 8th weeks；Time 4:12th weeks；Time 5(back to work 1 month)
In the first-year project of this study, oncology nurses have reported experiencing massive stress, insufficient communication ability, and the need for communication-related training. 70% of them had moderate or higher severity of workload, fatigue, and psychological distress (at the measure point) before being provided with Basic Remote Psychological Support Course (BRPSC). A month after BRPSC, some oncology nurses have indicated/affirmed the benefits of undergoing the comprehensive psycho oncology education training courses. Thus, the second- and third-year continuation projects are focused on the development and delivery of Multi-Psychological Empowerment Courses (MPEC) for oncology nurses