Systematic Light Exposure for Fatigue in Breast Cancer Patients
Cancer related fatigue (CRF) is a stressful and constant tiredness related to cancer and/or its treatment. CRF is the most intense during treatment and can severely interfere with activities of daily living, such as tasks that require physical strength or thinking clearly. Prevalence of CRF has been reported to be as high as 94% during chemotherapy and as high as 34% five years after completion of treatment (Rotonda et al. 2013; Minton \& Stone 2008). There is currently no generally-accepted treatment for CRF. However, there is evidence to suggest that light therapy can help with CRF. Non-pharmacological interventions for CRF have also been studied but are costly to implement and involve significant patient burden, particularly among those in active treatment. Given the clinical impact of CRF, the goal of this project is to investigate a novel, low-cost and low-burden intervention for Breast Cancer patients using a particular kind of light treatment called systematic light exposure (sLE) to treat CRF. Two hundred forty-eight breast cancer (BC) patients undergoing adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy will be recruited from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and City of Hope. The light will be administered by light glasses daily throughout entire duration of chemotherapy. Outcomes will be assessed at eight timepoints during chemo, and a series of follow up assessments at 1 week, 1-month, 3-months and 6-months post-chemotherapy. This study will have major public health relevance as it will determine if an easy-to-deliver, inexpensive, and low patient burden intervention effectively reduces CRF or prevents it from worsening during chemotherapy. Specific Aims: Aim 1: Determine if sLE prevents CRF from worsening in BC patients undergoing chemotherapy Aim 2: Determine whether sLE affects sleep, depression and circadian activity rhythms. Exploratory Aim 3: Investigate sLE normalizes circadian cortisol rhythms. Exploratory Aim 4: Examine whether the effects of sLE on fatigue are moderated/mediated by sleep quality, depression, and/or circadian rhythms.
Cancer-related Problem/Condition|Fatigue|Circadian Rhythm Disorders
DEVICE: Light Glasses (Experimental)|DEVICE: Light Glasses (Comparison)
FACIT-Fatigue Scale, FACIT-Fatigue Scale - The FACIT-Fatigue scale will be used both for selection of patients into the study and as an outcome measure of fatigue. Smith et al. (1999) report that this 13 item scale has excellent test-retest reliability (r = 0.90) and internal consistency reliability (alpha = 0.93-0.95). In addition, criterion related validity studies using objective measures of physical function as the outcome show that patient reported fatigue based on the FACIT- Fatigue can predict these objective measures. This measure is the main tool for measuring fatigue in the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) initiative. Cella (personal communication) has indicated that a FACIT-Fatigue score equal to or less than 33 constitutes clinically significant fatigue., up to 6 months
The Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), The Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) - This 20 item self-report adult instrument is designed to measure common symptoms of depression that have occurred over the past week such as poor appetite, hopelessness, pessimism, and fatigue. Internal consistency using coefficient alpha is estimated to be 0.85 for the general, healthy population, and 0.90 among depressed patient samples., up to 6 months|The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index consists of 19 self-rated items. Scale reliability is excellent using both an internal consistency criterion (Cronbach's alpha = 0.83) and test-retest reliability (r = 0.85). The validity of the instrument is based on its ability to discriminate patients (those having either sleep problems and/or depressive symptoms) from controls (healthy participants without sleep complaints)., up to 6 months|Chronotype (MEQ), The study team will collect data on baseline circadian predispositions using the Morningness-Eveningness Questionnaire, a 19-item self-rated survey designed to measure whether a person's peak alertness is in the morning or the evening. Takes approximately 2 minutes to complete., up to 6 months|Credibility/Expectancy Questionnaire, This questionnaire will ask the patient to report whether the patient feels the light box is a useful treatment for CRF. Patient Assessment of Own Functioning Inventory (PAOFI) a 33-item self- report measure of a patient's self-perceptions regarding their functioning in everyday tasks and activities., up to 6 months
Cancer related fatigue (CRF) is a stressful and constant tiredness related to cancer and/or its treatment. CRF is the most intense during treatment and can severely interfere with activities of daily living, such as tasks that require physical strength or thinking clearly. Prevalence of CRF has been reported to be as high as 94% during chemotherapy and as high as 34% five years after completion of treatment (Rotonda et al. 2013; Minton \& Stone 2008). There is currently no generally-accepted treatment for CRF. However, there is evidence to suggest that light therapy can help with CRF. Non-pharmacological interventions for CRF have also been studied but are costly to implement and involve significant patient burden, particularly among those in active treatment. Given the clinical impact of CRF, the goal of this project is to investigate a novel, low-cost and low-burden intervention for Breast Cancer patients using a particular kind of light treatment called systematic light exposure (sLE) to treat CRF. Two hundred forty-eight breast cancer (BC) patients undergoing adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy will be recruited from Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and City of Hope. The light will be administered by light glasses daily throughout entire duration of chemotherapy. Outcomes will be assessed at eight timepoints during chemo, and a series of follow up assessments at 1 week, 1-month, 3-months and 6-months post-chemotherapy. This study will have major public health relevance as it will determine if an easy-to-deliver, inexpensive, and low patient burden intervention effectively reduces CRF or prevents it from worsening during chemotherapy. Specific Aims: Aim 1: Determine if sLE prevents CRF from worsening in BC patients undergoing chemotherapy Aim 2: Determine whether sLE affects sleep, depression and circadian activity rhythms. Exploratory Aim 3: Investigate sLE normalizes circadian cortisol rhythms. Exploratory Aim 4: Examine whether the effects of sLE on fatigue are moderated/mediated by sleep quality, depression, and/or circadian rhythms.