A Phase II Randomized Study Evaluating the Biological and Clinical Effects of the Combination of Palbociclib With Letrozole as Neoadjuvant Therapy in Post-Menopausal Women With Estrogen-Receptor Positive Primary Breast Cancer
This study will look at effects the combination of palbociclib and letrozole may have on estrogen receptor (ER)-positive/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative breast cancer tumors which have not yet been treated. Letrozole is a type of endocrine therapy called an aromatase inhibitor (AI) and is standard treatment for post-menopausal women with ER-positive/HER2-negative breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Breast Carcinoma|Breast Tumors
DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: palbociclib
Measurement of the Proliferation Marker Ki67 (% Positive Tumor Cells), The change in Ki67 from baseline to 14 weeks., Baseline and at 14 weeks|Clinical Response : Number of Patients Who Have Resolution of Measurable Lesions or no New Lesions or Other Signs of Disease Progression Compared to Baseline., Clinical Response is assessed by ultrasound at the end of the treatment (week 14) according to ECOG response criteria defined in Appendix A1 of the protocol. Number of participants with clinical complete response., Baseline and at 14 weeks
Pathological Complete Response (pCR): Number of Patients With no Lesions in Breast and Nodes at Time of Surgery, Pathologic complete response in the breast (pCR breast) is defined as no histologic evidence of invasive tumour cells in the surgical breast specimen. Pathologic complete response in breast and axillary lymph nodes as well as non-axillary SN (pCR breast \& nodes) is defined as no histologic evidence of invasive tumour cells in the surgical breast specimen, axillary nodes, or SNs identified after neoadjuvant treatment. Data shows the pCR rates by randomised group., 14 weeks|Preoperative Endocrine Prognostic Index (PEPI) Score:, The PEPI score estimates the risk of cancer recurrence after treatment. Analysis of the PEPI score were pre-specified in the protocol and statistical analysis plan. However, pathological/biomarker characteristics which comprise this score such as the Allred score for ER status were not collected during the trial so cannot be calculated at this stage. PEPI Scale range is 0-16 for RFS. Higher score represents worse outcome. No combination of subscales., 14 weeks|Number and Severity of Adverse Events, To evaluate the overall safety and tolerability for the combination of letrozole and palbociclib. The number of patients experiencing at least one adverse event. Refer to Adverse Events section for more details., Baseline and weekly through 12 months after randomization|Measurement of Ki67 Marker, To compare Ki67 results after 2 weeks and 14 weeks of study therapy. Log fold change in Ki67 from week 2-week 14., Week 2 and week 14|Comparison of Surgical Intent (Mastectomy; Breast Conservation), To compare changes between surgical intent at baseline; surgical intent after 14 weeks; and actual surgery received after treatment with letrozole with or without palbociclib. Percentage of patients change to receiving breast conservation and receiving breast conservation., Time frame between baseline and surgery date. (Note-surgical intent happened before randomization).
The FB-11 study is a Phase II, randomized, open label, four arm study to examine the biological and clinical effect of neoadjuvant letrozole with or without palbociclib in the first-line treatment of estrogen-receptor (ER) positive, HER2-negative early invasive breast cancer. The co-primary aims of this study are to to compare the changes in the proliferation marker Ki67, and to compare clinical response after 14 weeks of therapy with letrozole with or without palbociclib.

The FB-11 study initiative is a joint partnership between the NSABP Foundation, Inc. (NSABP) Department of Site and Study Management (DSSM) and United Kingdom (UK) co-investigators at the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust and the Institute of Cancer Research (ICR). Parallel protocols will be conducted in the US and Canada (FB-11), and the UK (PALLET) with joint analysis of interim and final data.

Postmenopausal women, newly diagnosed with ER-positive/HER2-negative early breast cancer, who are suitable candidates for neoadjuvant endocrine therapy will be invited to join the FB-11/PALLET trial. Approximately 306 patients will be accrued to this study. Each collaborative group will recruit at least 1/3 and no more than 2/3 of the target accrual.

Patients will be randomized to one of four treatment arms (3:2:2:2 ratio). Treatment in the first 14 weeks of neoadjuvant therapy will be:Arm A Letrozole alone; Arm B Letrozole for 2 weeks followed by letrozole + palbociclib to week 14; Arm C Palbociclib for 2 weeks followed by letrozole + palbociclib to week 14; Arm D Letrozole + palbociclib to week 14.

Letrozole will be administered orally as a 2.5mg daily tablet. Palbociclib will be administered orally as 125mg capsules, daily on a schedule of 3 weeks (21 days) on, 1 week (7 days) off of a 4 week \[28 day\] cycle.

The end of study therapy for patients in Arm A will be completion of week 14. Patients in Arms B, C, and D will complete study therapy following 14 days of palbociclib in the final treatment cycle past 14 weeks if treatment delays have occurred.

Note: After week 14 (end of study therapy) all patients should continue letrozole until surgery. Letrozole is not considered study therapy beyond completion of week 14 for Arm A or after 14 days of palbociclib in the final treatment cycle for patients in Arms B, C, and D.

Following completion of study therapy, surgery will be scheduled for 15-18 weeks post-randomization. Post-surgical treatment will be at discretion of treating clinician, following local protocols, and not influenced by allocation of treatment within the FB-11/PALLET study.

Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0).