Incidence, Prevalence, and Symptom Burden Associated With Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma in Commercially Insured Population (Pharmetrics)
Information on the prevalence of advanced/metastatic renal cell carcinoma and its symptom burden is limited in commercially insured adult patients. Additionally, limited information exists on economic burden of adverse events associated with treatments for advanced/metastatic renal cell carcinoma. An objective of the current study is to estimate the incidence, prevalence, and symptom burden associated with advanced/metastatic RCC in a US "real-world" setting. Another objective is to quantify the economic burden of severe adverse events with agents used in management of first line advanced/metastatic RCC (sunitinib, sorafenib, bevacizumab, and pazopanib). This study will employ a retrospective cohort design. Analyses of health insurance claims data from a large commercially insured population will be employed in the current study. Study subjects will consist of all persons, aged ≥18 years, with evidence of advanced RCC between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2009; these persons will be identified based in part on case-ascertainment algorithms. Analyses will be directed at estimating annual rates of incidence and prevalence of advanced/metastatic RCC, as well as symptom burden and costs of common severe adverse events associated with treatments used in management of advanced/metastatic RCC (sunitinib, sorafenib, bevacizumab, and pazopanib).
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Targeted agents indicated in management of advanced/metastatic RCC (sunitinib, sorafenib, bevacizumab, and pazopanib)
New and existing claims of metastatic renal cell carcinoma across multiple years, Identifying new and existing claims (based on claims based case-ascertainment algorithm) of metastatic renal cell carcinoma across multiple years, 2000 - 2009 (up to 10 years)|Cost associated with management of common severe adverse events related to 1st line treatments used in metastatic renal cell carcinoma, Quantifying economic burden associated with management of common severe adverse events (defined as grade 3 and above adverse events occurring \>= 5% as per product label) related to agents used in 1st line metastatic RCC (sunitinib, sorafenib, bevacizumab, and pazopanib). Adverse events will be identified based on product labels., 2000 - 2009 (up to 10 years)
Quantify symptom burden associated with metastatic renal cell carcinoma, Quantifying symptom burden based on identification of claims associated with the respective symptoms. Disease related symptoms will be identified based on published literature., 2000 - 2009 (up to 10 years)
Information on the prevalence of advanced/metastatic renal cell carcinoma and its symptom burden is limited in commercially insured adult patients. Additionally, limited information exists on economic burden of adverse events associated with treatments for advanced/metastatic renal cell carcinoma. An objective of the current study is to estimate the incidence, prevalence, and symptom burden associated with advanced/metastatic RCC in a US "real-world" setting. Another objective is to quantify the economic burden of severe adverse events with agents used in management of first line advanced/metastatic RCC (sunitinib, sorafenib, bevacizumab, and pazopanib). This study will employ a retrospective cohort design. Analyses of health insurance claims data from a large commercially insured population will be employed in the current study. Study subjects will consist of all persons, aged ≥18 years, with evidence of advanced RCC between January 1, 2000 and December 31, 2009; these persons will be identified based in part on case-ascertainment algorithms. Analyses will be directed at estimating annual rates of incidence and prevalence of advanced/metastatic RCC, as well as symptom burden and costs of common severe adverse events associated with treatments used in management of advanced/metastatic RCC (sunitinib, sorafenib, bevacizumab, and pazopanib).