Glucocorticoid-induced Tumour Necrosis Factor Receptor Related Protein (GITR) in Rheumatoid Arthritis
This study aimed to measure serum and synovial fluid (SF) levels of GITR in patients with recent onset RA before and after initiation of therapy
Rheumatoid Arthritis
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: measurement of GITR
28 tender joints count, tender joints count of both shoulders, elbows, wrists, metacarpophalangeal joints, proximal interphalangeal joints and the knees in Rheumatoid patients, 4 months|28 swollen joints count, swollen joints count of both shoulders, elbows, wrists, metacarpophalangeal joints, proximal interphalangeal joints and the knees in Rheumatoid patients, 4 months|patient's global assessment of disease activity, patient's global assessment of disease activity on 0 to 100 mm VAS 0 is the best and 100 is the worst., 4 months|disease activity score of 28 joint count (DAS28), DAS28 is calculated from tender and swollen joint counts , ESR and patient's global assessment of disease activity according to the following formula DAS28 = 0.56 \* sqrt(tender28) + 0.28 \* sqrt(swollen28) + 0.70 \* ln(ESR) + 0.014 \* global patient assesment, 4 months|erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), ESR measured in mm/1st hour by westergren method, 4 months|C reactive protein (CRP), CRP measured in mg/L using nephlometry, 4 months|grey scale12 joint score, grey scale musculoskeletal ultrasound including bilateral examination of both 2nd metacarpophalengeal (MCP) joints, 3rd MCP joints, wrists, elbows, knees and ankles then the following greyscale synovitis semiquantitative grades were assumed: Grade 0: absent. Grade 1: mild with anechoic / hypoechoic line below the capsule of the joint. Grade 2: moderate with elevation of the joint capsule that becomes parallel to the area of the joint. Grade 3: severe with marked distension of the capsule., 4 months|power Doppler 12 joint score, power Doppler musculoskeletal ultrasound including bilateral examination of both 2nd metacarpophalengeal (MCP) joints, 3rd MCP joints, wrists, elbows, knees and ankles then the following power Doppler synovitis grades were assumed: Grade 0: no colour signal inside joint area. Grade 1: up to 3 colour signals inside joint area. Grade 2: colour signals less than half of joint area and more than grade 1. Grade 3: colour signals more than half of joint area., 4 months|rheumatoid factor, rheumatoid factor measured in U/ml using latex agglutination test, 4 months|anticyclic citrullinated antibody (Anti CCP), Anti CCP measured in Unit/ml using ELISA, 4 months
1. Technical design:

   Study design: a longitudinal observational cohort study.

   This study will be carried out on two groups:
   * Group (I): fifty early onset rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients fulfilled the 2010 American college of rheumatology (ACR) - European league against rheumatism (EULAR) classification criteria for RA \[11\].
   * Group (II): Twenty healthy individuals of matching age and sex as control group.

   Both groups will be recruited from the in-patients and out-patients' clinic of the Rheumatology, Rehabilitation\& Physical Medicine Department, Benha University Hospital.

   All patients will be evaluated at baseline at 6 months follow up using:

   (A) Clinical evaluation 1. Complete history taking. 2. Thorough clinical examination. 3. Disease activity using DAS28 \[12\]

   (B) Laboratory assessment:

   All patients will be subjected to the following measurements:
   1. Erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR).
   2. C reactive protein (CRP).
   3. Rheumatoid factor (RF)
   4. Anti-cyclic citrullinated peptide (Anti- CCP).
   5. glucocorticoid-induced tumour necrosis factor receptor related protein (GITR)

   (D) Musculoskeletal ultrasound assessment: Ultrasound examinations will be performed for patients and control groups using a Logiq e equipped with a broadband 8- to 13-MHz linear transducer
2. Statistical analysis The collected data will be tabulated and analyzed using suitable statistical computer version.