A Trial of Amrubicin and Carboplatin With Pegfilgrastim in Patients With Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
This proposed trial will investigate the combination of amrubicin and carboplatin in the first-line treatment of patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES- SCLC). Since myelosuppression is the most common toxicity produced by this drug combination, pegfilgrastim will be administered with each treatment cycle. This trial will be the first clinical trial to evaluate a combination of amrubicin and carboplatin in the first-line treatment of ES SCLC in a U.S. population.
Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Amrubicin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pegfilgrastim
1-year Survival, Percentage of patients still alive one year after their first treatment, 12 months
Objective Response Rate, The Percentage of Patients Who Experience an Objective Benefit From Treatment. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR + PR., 36 months|Time to Progression, Time to progression will be defined as the time from first treatment until objective tumor progression (PD). Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 36 months|Overall Survival, The Length of Time, in Months, That Patients Were Alive From Their First Date of Protocol Treatment Until Death, 84 months|Toxicity/Safety, Grade 3/4 toxicities, 36 months
This proposed trial will investigate the combination of amrubicin and carboplatin in the first-line treatment of patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES- SCLC). Since myelosuppression is the most common toxicity produced by this drug combination, pegfilgrastim will be administered with each treatment cycle. This trial will be the first clinical trial to evaluate a combination of amrubicin and carboplatin in the first-line treatment of ES SCLC in a U.S. population.