Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors Summary Index (PDQ®)–Health Professional Version
On This Page
General Information About Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors
Type of Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors
Latest Updates to This Summary (12/19/2023)
About This PDQ Summary
General Information About Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors
Primary brain tumors are a diverse group of diseases that together constitute the most common solid tumor of childhood. The Central Brain Tumor Registry of the United States (CBTRUS) estimates that approximately 4,300 U.S. children are diagnosed each year.[
1
]
Brain tumors are classified by histology, but tumor location and extent of spread are also important factors that affect treatment and prognosis. Immunohistochemical analysis, cytogenetic and molecular genetic findings, and measures of proliferative activity are increasingly used in tumor diagnosis and classification.[
2
]
References
Ostrom QT, Gittleman H, Farah P, et al.: CBTRUS statistical report: Primary brain and central nervous system tumors diagnosed in the United States in 2006-2010. Neuro Oncol 15 (Suppl 2): ii1-56, 2013.
[PUBMED Abstract]
Louis DN, Perry A, Reifenberger G, et al.: The 2016 World Health Organization Classification of Tumors of the Central Nervous System: a summary. Acta Neuropathol 131 (6): 803-20, 2016.
[PUBMED Abstract]
Type of Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors
For information about the type of childhood brain and spinal cord tumor and its related PDQ summary, see the table below. If a tumor type is not listed, a corresponding PDQ treatment summary is not available.
CNS Tumor Type, Pathological Subtype, and Its Related PDQ Treatment Summary
Tumor Type (Based on the 2021 WHO  Classification)
a
Pathological Subtype  (Based on the 2021 WHO  Classification)
a
Related PDQ Treatment Summary
CNS = central nervous system; NEC = not elsewhere classified; NOS = not otherwise specified; WHO = World Health Organization.
a
WHO classification adapted from Louis et al.[
1
]
Pediatric-type diffuse high-grade gliomas
Diffuse pediatric-type high-grade glioma, H3-wild type and
IDH
-wild type
Childhood Astrocytomas, Other Gliomas, and Glioneuronal/Neuronal Tumors Treatment
Diffuse midline glioma, H3 K27-altered
Diffuse hemispheric glioma, H3 G34-mutant
Infant-type hemispheric glioma
Circumscribed astrocytic gliomas
Pilocytic astrocytoma
Childhood Astrocytomas, Other Gliomas, and Glioneuronal/Neuronal Tumors Treatment
High-grade astrocytoma with piloid features
Subependymal giant cell astrocytoma
Pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma
Choroid glioma
Astroblastoma,
MN1
-altered
Ependymal tumors
Subependymoma
Childhood Ependymoma Treatment
Myxopapillary ependymoma
Supratentorial ependymoma, NOS
Supratentorial ependymoma,
ZFTA
fusion–positive
Supratentorial ependymoma,
YAP1
fusion–positive
Posterior fossa ependymoma, NOS
Posterior fossa group A (PFA) ependymoma
Posterior fossa group B (PFB) ependymoma
Spinal ependymoma, NOS
Spinal ependymoma,
MYCN
-amplified
Pediatric-type diffuse low-grade glioma
Diffuse astrocytoma,
MYB
- or
MYBL1
-altered
Childhood Astrocytomas, Other Gliomas, and Glioneuronal/Neuronal Tumors Treatment
Angiocentric glioma
Polymorphous low-grade neuroepithelial tumor of the young
Diffuse low-grade glioma, MAPK pathway-altered
Glioneuronal and neuronal tumors
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor
Childhood Astrocytomas, Other Gliomas, and Glioneuronal/Neuronal Tumors Treatment
Ganglioglioma
Gangliocytoma
Desmoplastic infantile ganglioglioma
Desmoplastic infantile astrocytoma
Diffuse glioneuronal tumor with oligodendroglioma-like features and nuclear clusters (provisional entity)
Papillary glioneuronal tumor
Rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor
Myxoid glioneuronal tumor
Diffuse leptomeningeal glioneuronal tumor
Multinodular and vacuolating neuronal tumor
Dysplastic cerebellar gangliocytoma (Lhermitte-Duclos disease)
Extraventricular neurocytoma
Cerebellar liponeurocytoma
Central neurocytoma
Tumors of the pineal region
Pineoblastoma
Childhood Medulloblastoma and Other Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors Treatment
Embryonal tumors
Medulloblastoma,
WNT
-activated
Childhood Medulloblastoma and Other Central Nervous System Embryonal Tumors Treatment
Medulloblastoma, SHH-activated and
TP53
-mutant; Medulloblastoma, SHH-activated and
TP53
-wildtype
Medulloblastoma, non-
WNT
/non-SHH
Medulloblastoma, histologically defined
Desmoplastic nodular medulloblastoma
Medulloblastoma with extensive nodularity
Large cell medulloblastoma
Anaplastic medulloblastoma
Embryonal tumor with multilayered rosettes,
C19MC
-altered
CNS tumor with
BCOR
internal tandem duplication
CNS neuroblastoma,
FOXR2
-activated
CNS embryonal tumor, NEC/NOS
Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor
Childhood Central Nervous System Atypical Teratoid/Rhabdoid Tumor Treatment
Germ cell tumors
Germinoma
Childhood Central Nervous System Germ Cell Tumors Treatment
Embryonal carcinoma
Yolk sac tumor
Choriocarcinoma
Mature teratoma
Immature teratoma
Teratoma with somatic-type malignancy
Mixed germ cell tumor
Tumors of the sellar region
Adamantinomatous craniopharyngioma
Childhood Craniopharyngioma Treatment
Papillary craniopharyngioma
References
Louis DN, Perry A, Wesseling P, et al.: The 2021 WHO Classification of Tumors of the Central Nervous System: a summary. Neuro Oncol 23 (8): 1231-1251, 2021.
[PUBMED Abstract]
Latest Updates to This Summary (12/19/2023)
The PDQ cancer information summaries are reviewed regularly and updated as
new information becomes available.  This section describes the latest
changes made to this summary as of the date above.
This summary was comprehensively reviewed and extensively revised.
This summary was renamed from Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors Treatment Overview.
This summary is written and maintained by the
PDQ Pediatric Treatment Editorial Board
, which is
editorially independent of NCI.  The summary reflects an independent review of
the literature and does not represent a policy statement of NCI or NIH.  More
information about summary policies and the role of the PDQ Editorial Boards  in
maintaining the PDQ summaries can be found on the
About This PDQ Summary
and
PDQ® Cancer Information for Health Professionals
pages.
About This PDQ Summary
Purpose of This Summary
This PDQ cancer information summary for health professionals provides comprehensive, peer-reviewed, evidence-based information about the treatment of childhood brain and spinal cord tumors. It is intended as a resource to inform and assist clinicians in the care of their patients.  It does not provide formal guidelines or recommendations for making health care decisions.
Reviewers and Updates
This summary is reviewed regularly and updated as necessary by the
PDQ Pediatric Treatment Editorial Board
, which is editorially independent of the National Cancer Institute (NCI).  The summary reflects an independent review of the literature and does not represent a policy statement of NCI or the National Institutes of Health (NIH).
Board members review recently published articles each month to determine whether an article should:
be discussed at a meeting,
be cited with text, or
replace or update an existing article that is already cited.
Changes to the summaries are made through a consensus process in which Board members evaluate the strength of the evidence in  the published articles and determine how the article should be included in the summary.
The lead reviewers for Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors Summary Index are:
Kenneth J. Cohen, MD, MBA (Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins Hospital)
Louis S. Constine, MD (James P. Wilmot Cancer Center at University of Rochester Medical Center)
Roger J. Packer, MD (Children's National Hospital)
D. Williams Parsons, MD, PhD (Texas Children's Hospital)
Malcolm A. Smith, MD, PhD (National Cancer Institute)
Any comments or questions about the summary content should be submitted to Cancer.gov through the NCI website's
Email Us
. Do not contact the individual Board Members with questions or comments about the summaries. Board members will not respond to individual inquiries.
Levels of Evidence
Some of the reference citations in this summary are accompanied by a level-of-evidence designation. These designations are intended to help readers assess the strength of the evidence supporting the use of specific interventions or approaches. The PDQ Pediatric Treatment Editorial Board uses a
formal evidence ranking system
in developing its level-of-evidence designations.
Permission to Use This Summary
PDQ is a registered trademark. Although the content of PDQ documents can be used freely as text, it cannot be identified as an NCI PDQ cancer information summary unless it is presented in its entirety and is regularly updated. However, an author would be permitted to write a sentence such as “NCI’s PDQ cancer information summary about breast cancer prevention states the risks succinctly: [include excerpt from the summary].”
The preferred citation for this PDQ summary is:
PDQ® Pediatric Treatment Editorial Board. PDQ Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors Summary Index. Bethesda, MD: National Cancer Institute. Updated  <MM/DD/YYYY>. Available at:
https://www.cancer.gov/types/brain/hp/child-brain-treatment-pdq
.  Accessed <MM/DD/YYYY>. [PMID: 26389453]
Images in this summary are used with permission of the author(s), artist, and/or publisher for use within the PDQ summaries only. Permission to use images outside the context of PDQ information must be obtained from the owner(s) and cannot be granted by  the National Cancer Institute. Information about using the illustrations in this summary, along with many other cancer-related images, is available in
Visuals Online
, a collection of over 2,000 scientific images.
Disclaimer
Based on the strength of the available evidence, treatment options may be described as either “standard” or “under clinical evaluation.” These classifications should not be used as a basis for insurance reimbursement determinations. More information on insurance coverage is available on Cancer.gov on the
Managing Cancer Care
page.
Contact Us
More information about contacting us or receiving help with the Cancer.gov website can be found on our
Contact Us for Help
page. Questions can also be submitted to Cancer.gov through the website’s
Email Us
.
Updated:
December 19, 2023
If you would like to reproduce some or all of this content, see
Reuse of NCI Information
for guidance about copyright and permissions. In the case of permitted digital reproduction, please credit the National Cancer Institute as the source and link to the original NCI product using the original product's title; e.g., “Childhood Brain and Spinal Cord Tumors Summary Index (PDQ®)–Health Professional Version was originally published by the National Cancer Institute.”
Want to use this content on your website or other digital platform? Our
syndication services page
shows you how.